IN THE COURT OF THE CIVIL JUDGE & JMFC., AT
                         T.NARASIPURA

Present: Sri. Abdul Khadar, B.A., LL.B.,
             Civil Judge & JMFC., T.Narasipura.	PREAMBLE


Dated this the 21st day of September 2011	PREAMBLE


C.C. No: 33/2009

Complainant:	PREAMBLE
                    State by Excise Sub Inspector	PREAMBLE
(By Learned A.P.P.)
                            V/S
Accused:                         Mahadeva @ Madesha, 35 years,
                                 S/o	PREAMBLE
Late Basavaiah, Srirampura	PREAMBLE

                                 colony, Muguru village, T.Narasipura	PREAMBLE

                                 Taluk.	PREAMBLE
(By Sri.B.S. Advocate)	PREAMBLE


                                     JUDGMENT	PREAMBLE

 The Excise Sub Inspector, T.Narasipura has submitted charge sheet against the accused for the alleged offences punishable under sections 32 and 34 of the Karnataka Excise Act.	FAC

 2. The following are the brief and relevant facts leading to the case of the prosecution.	NONE

 That on 1/05/08 at about 8-30 a.m. within the limits of T.Narasipura Police Station in Muguru village, in the petty shop belongs to accused, he was found in possession of 6 bottles Highway No.1 whiskey containing each 180 ml., 6 bottles Superjack whiskey containing each 180 ml. totally 160 liters in white plastic bag without having valid licence.	FAC
Then the I.O. along with his staff searched the plastic bag and seized the illicit liquors in the presence of punch witnesses under mahazar and 180 ml.	FAC
from each bottle has taken as sample and	FAC
C.H.Rangaiah, Excise Sub-Inspector on his self complaint he registered a case in Crime No.22/07-08 for the above said offence against the accused.	FAC
Thereafter, he prepared F.I.R. and sent it to the Court and set the criminal law into motion.	FAC

 3. During the course of investigation, the accused appeared before this Court and accused was released on bail.	FAC
CW 3 C.H.Rangaiah, Excise Sub Inspector sent the sample of Toddy 180 ml. each of 2 bottles to the Divisional Public Analysts-cum-Regional Asst. Chemical Examiner to the Government of Karnataka, Mysore Division, Mysore for chemical analysis.	FAC
On receipt of the report of the chemical analysis I.O. found sufficient materials against the accused and filed charge sheet.	FAC

 4. On hearing both sides and on careful perusal of the charge sheet and investigation papers this Court has taken cognizance of the offence punishable under section 34, of the Karnataka Excise Act against the accused and registered the criminal case.	ANALYSIS

 5. After filing charge sheet this Court has issued summons for the appearance of the accused, after service of summons the accused appeared through his counsel and he is enlarged on bail.	ANALYSIS

After securing the presence of the accused charge sheet and other investigation papers have been furnished to the accused as contemplated U/s. 207 of Cr.P.C.	ANALYSIS

 6. After securing the presence of the accused on hearing both sides charge U/s 34 of the Karnataka Excise Act has been framed, read over and explained to the accused.	ANALYSIS
The accused pleaded not guilty and claims to be tried.	ANALYSIS
Hence, case has been posted for recording of evidence of the prosecution side.	ANALYSIS

 7. In order to substantiate the case made out by the prosecution it has examined as many as 2 witnesses as PW 1 and PW2 and got marked 2 documents as Ex.P.1 and P2 and their respective signatures and M.O.1 and 2.	ANALYSIS

 8. Thereafter, after securing the presence of the accused statement of the accused U/s. 313 of Cr.P.C. has been recorded after providing an opportunity to the accused to explain the incriminating circumstances appearing in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses.	NONE
No defence evidence led.	NONE
The accused denied the prosecution case in toto and his complicity in the commission of the alleged crime.	NONE

 9. Heard the argument on both sides.	ANALYSIS
Perused the materials placed on record.	ANALYSIS
10. On the basis of the materials placed on record the only point that would arises for my consideration is: 1. Whether the prosecution proves beyond all-reasonable doubt that, on 1/05/08 at about 8-30 a.m. within the limits of T.Narasipura Police Station in Muguru village, in the petty shop belongs to accused, he was found in possession of 6 bottles Highway No.1 whiskey containing each 180 ml., 6 bottles Super jack whiskey containing each 180 ml.	ISSUE
totally 160 liters in white plastic bag without lawful authority and thereby the accused has committed the offence punishable u/s. 34 of the Karnataka Excise Act?	ISSUE

 2. What order or sentence?	ISSUE

 11. On careful perusal of the materials and evidence both oral and documentary on record my findings to the above points are as follows: Point No.1	ANALYSIS
In the negative Point No.2	ANALYSIS
As per the final order for the following: REASONS Point No.1 	ANALYSIS
: 12. Let me analyze how for the prosecution is successful in proving the guilt of the accused to the hilt with extent of the oral and documentary evidence.	NONE
In the instance case, PW1 Shivakumar is the Excise guard and PW2 C.H.Rangaiah is the Excise Inspector are conducted raid along with Sectoral magistrate and they are the signatories of spot and seizure mahazar witnesses.	ANALYSIS

 13. PW1 and 2	ANALYSIS
in their chief examination has deposed that they along with Sectoral Magistrate and punch witnesses were patrolling at Mugur Bus stand, Srirampura colony, in a petty shop belongs to accused was selling illicit liquor.	ANALYSIS
Then they searched and they found 6 bottles Highway No.1 whiskey containing each 180 ml., 6 bottles Super jack whiskey containing each 180 ml. totally 160 liters in white plastic bag.	ANALYSIS
He was not having valid licence to possess the same.	ANALYSIS
On seeing them the accused ran away and on enquiry the villagers told that the name of the accused as Mahadeva and the petty shop belongs to accused.	ANALYSIS
Then PW2 seized illicit liquor in the presence of punch witnesses under mahazar as per Ex.P1 and 180 ml. from each bottle has taken as sample bottles and the accused was not having lawful authority and they seized M.O.1 and 2 under mahazar as per Ex.P1 and sample seal as per Ex.P2 and prepared FIR as per Ex.P5 and sent requisition letter as per Ex.P3 and received report as per Ex.P4 and after completion of investigation PW2 filed charge sheet.	ANALYSIS
In their cross-examination they have denied all the questions posed by the learned counsel for the accused.	ANALYSIS
He has stated that Sectoral magistrate has not put his signature to Ex.P1 and they have denied that M.O.1 and 2 are empty bottles.	ANALYSIS
Moreover they do not know the boundaries of the place of occurrence and further the I.O. not enquired the independent witnesses who were presence in the spot.	ANALYSIS
14. Further the prosecution given up C.W.2 and the learned Assistant Public Prosecutor has prayed to issue summons to CW2 and the prayer made by the learned Assistant Public Prosecutor is rejected.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, without the corroborative evidence of complainant, independent eye-witnesses and punch witnesses, evidence of excise official witnesses cannot be taken into consideration to convict the accused.	ANALYSIS

 15. Now there arises a doubt about the sample illicit liquor bottles, which has been allegedly seized by the I.O.	ANALYSIS
The very same sample illicit liquor bottles which has been sent to chemical analysis.	ANALYSIS

Therefore, whatever may be the report of the Forensic Laboratory with regard to the alcohol contents of the said bottles, which is irrelevant to this case.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, the contents of report of the Forensic Laboratory is of no consequence to prove the guilt of the accused to the hilt.	ANALYSIS

 16. On Scrupulous reading of the entire evidence adduced by prosecution this Court is of the opinion that the prosecution has utterly failed to prove the guilt of the accused beyond all reasonable doubt and always benefit of doubt is to be given to the accused, accordingly, it has been given.	RATIO
Hence, accused deserves to be acquitted.	RPC
Hence I answer Point No. 1 in the negative.	RPC

 17. Point No.2:	NONE
In view of my above discussion and the reasons stated therein on Point No.1, I proceed to pass the following: ORDER	NONE
Acting	RPC
U/s. 248(1) of Cr.P.C. accused is hereby acquitted for the offence punishable u/sec. 34 of the Karnataka Excise Act.	RPC

 Accused is hereby set at liberty.	RPC

 M.O.1 and 2 are ordered to be returned to the I.O. for disposal in accordance with law, under intimation of this Court.	RPC
His bail bond and surety bond shall be in force for 6 months in view of amended provision under Sec.437(A) of Cr.P.C.	RPC

 (Dictated to the stenographer, transcribed by her, corrected and then pronounced by me in the open court on this 21st day of September 2011)	NONE
( Abdul Khadar ) Civil Judge & JMFC., T.Narasipura.	NONE
ANNEXURE List of witnesses examined on behalf of prosecution.
 PW1            Shivakumar PW2            C.H.Rangaiah List of documents exhibited on behalf of prosecution.
 Ex	NONE
.P1          Mahazar ExP1(a)& (b)   Signatures Ex.P2	NONE
Copy of sample seal Ex.P2(a)&(b)   Signatures Ex.P3	NONE
         Requisition letter sent to FSL Ex.P3(a)to(c)  Signatures Ex.P4          FSL Report Ex.P5          FIR Ex.P5(a)       Signature List of documents exhibited on behalf of prosecution.	NONE
M.Os.1 and 2 Sample bottles	NONE
List of documents exhibited on behalf of accused - Nil - Civil Judge & JMFC., T.Narasipura.	NONE
