IN THE COURT OF THE PRL. 1st CIVIL JUDGE & J.M.F.C.,
                                   AT MYSORE

                PRESENT:	PREAMBLE
Sri H.Shashidhara Shetty, B.A.L., LL.M.,	PREAMBLE
Prl.First Civil Judge & JMFC, Mysore.	PREAMBLE
DATED THIS THE 31st DAY OF OCTOBER 2013

                           :	PREAMBLE
: C.C.No.2784/2008	PREAMBLE
::

COMPLIANANT :-  Sri.D. Chandru,
                S/o Dasegowda,
                Aged about 26 years,
                R/o No.492, 5th Cross,
                Hebbal 2nd Stage, (M.G.Koppal)
                Mysore	PREAMBLE
ACCUSED :-      (By: Sri.K.K, Advocate)

                        -V	PREAMBLE
/s-

                Smt. Rajeshwari.	PREAMBLE
M
                W	PREAMBLE
/o Hanumanthraju
                	PREAMBLE
Aged about 44 years,
                R/o No.142, L.I.G., 2
                Laxmikanthanagar,
                Hebbal, 1st Stage,
                Mysore.	PREAMBLE
18

                	PREAMBLE
(By: Sri.A.K.J., Advocate)

                             **	PREAMBLE
***


                                      J U D G M E N T	PREAMBLE
The Complainant has filed the complaint under Section 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, against the accused for the offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (herein after referred to as `the N.I.Act').
 2.	FAC
In brief the complaint averments are as follows:-	FAC
The complainant and the accused are known to each other and on 05.06.2008, the accused requested the complainant for financial assistance of Rs.85,000/- to meet urgent legal necessities and to clear the hand loan raised by the accused.	FAC
The complainant lent Rs.85,000/- on 05.06.2008 and the accused promised to repay the same within a month with interest at 2% and issued a post dated cheque bearing No.319609 dated 05.07.2008 drawn on Karnataka bank, Vijayanagar, Mysore for a sum of Rs.85,000/-.	FAC

The complainant presented the said cheque for collection on 07.07.2008 through his banker Oriental bank of Commerce, Kuvempunagar, Mysore, which returned dishonoured for the reasons ` payment stopped by the drawer' vide endorsement dated 09.07.2008.	FAC
The complainant caused legal notice on 18.07.2008, both through R.P.A.D. and C.O.P., but the notice sent through R.P.A.D. with share ` addressee not in station' on 29.07.2008 and the notice sent through C.O.P. is deemed to be served on the accused.	FAC
The accused did not repay the cheque amount.	FAC
Hence, the complaint.	FAC

 3. The court after taking cognizance recorded the sworn statement of the complainant, issued process to the accused, who appeared before the court through his learned counsel and obtained bail.	FAC
Copies of the complaint and documents are furnished to the accused.	FAC
On 03.06.2011, the plea of the accused was recorded, for which the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.	FAC

 4. During trial, on behalf of the complainant, he himself got examined as PW1 and examined one more witness as PW.2 and got marked the documents Ex.P1 to Ex.P7.	FAC
With that the complainant closed his side.	FAC
The Statement of the accused as required under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. was recorded, wherein the accused denied the incriminating evidence against her.	FAC
On her defence, the accused got examined herself as DW.1 and got marked documents at Ex.D.1 to Ex.D.4.	FAC
With that the accused closed her side.	FAC

 5. Heard.	FAC
The learned counsel for the complainant filed written arguments.	FAC
Perused the records.	FAC
6. The points for consideration of this Court are as under: - 1.	ISSUE
Whether the complainant proves beyond all reasonable doubt that, the cheque bearing No.319609 dated 05.07.2008 for Rs.85,000/- drawn on Karnataka Bank, Mysore branch was issued by the accused to the complainant in discharge of legally recoverable debt?	ISSUE
2. Whether the complainant further proves that the accused has failed to pay the cheque amount inspite of a legal demand and thereby committed an offence punishable U/Sec.138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act?	ISSUE

 3. What order?	NONE

 7. The findings of this Court on the above points are as under:- Point no.1 : In the Negative.
                         Point no.2 : In the Negative.
                         Point no.3 :	ANALYSIS
As per final order, for the following: REASONS 8. Point Nos.1 & 2 : As these points are inter-linked, they are taken up for common discussion to avoid repetition.
 9. PW1- Sri. D. Chandru, the complainant herein has filed affidavit in lieu of chief examination and reiterated the complaint averments.	ANALYSIS
In support of his contention, he has produced a cheque dated 05.07.2008 for Rs.85,000/- drawn on Karnataka Bank at Ex.P.1 and identified the signature of the accused therein as Ex.P.1(a).	ANALYSIS
Further he produced the bank endorsement at Ex.P.2, which discloses that the cheque-Ex.P.1 was dishonoured for the reasons `payment stopped by drawer'.	ANALYSIS
Further PW.1 produced legal notice dated 18.07.2008 at Ex.P.3, C.O.P. at Ex.P.4, postal receipt at Ex.P.5, R.P.A.D. cover returned unserved at Ex.P.6 and copy of the legal notice in it at Ex.P.6(a).
 10.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, DW.1-Smt. Rajeshwari, the accused has adduced in her evidence taking a defence that she had not borrowed hand loan of Rs.85,000/- from the complainant and issued the cheque at Ex.P.1 in discharge of that loan in favour of the complainant.	ANALYSIS
Further, stated that the complainant is a contractor and she entered into an agreement with the complainant in the month of January 2005 for construction of her house as per the agreement at Ex.D.3 for a total sum of Rs.3,60,000/- and then an additional sum of Rs.50,000/- was agreed to be paid by her to the complainant.	ANALYSIS

 11. The fact that the complainant took the contract of the construction of accused's house is admitted by PW.1 in his cross-examination.	ANALYSIS
He also admitted about the entering into the agreement between himself and the accused as per Ex.D.2 (Ex.D.3 is the original of Ex.D.2).	ANALYSIS
The PW.1 admitted his signature in Ex.D.2 as Ex.D.2(a).	ANALYSIS
Hence, it is clearly proved that the complainant being a contractor had taken the construction work of the accused's house under the agreement Ex.D.3 (Ex.D.2) for total sum of Rs.3,60,000/-.
 12.	ANALYSIS
Now, it is the defence of DW.1 that she had made part payment under the agreement Ex.D.3, at that time, the complainant took one cheque for Rs.85,000/- and another blank signed cheque drawn on Karnataka bank and also a pronote.	ANALYSIS
Further, DW.1 adduced that she was due to pay in all Rs.85,000/- towards the contract work done by the complainant.	ANALYSIS
Out of that she paid Rs.45,000/- by cash and Rs.40,000/- through a cheque, which has been encashed by the complainant.	ANALYSIS
Further DW.1 adduced that she has paid entire amount due to the complainant, but when she demanded him to return the cheque, he gave lame excuses and failed to return it.	ANALYSIS
In support of her contention, DW.1 produced a document drawn on a stamp paper at Ex.D.1, which when confronted to PW.1, he admitted the signature therein and also states that while he signed it, it was written.	ANALYSIS

Ex.D.1 depicts that on 05.05.2008, the accused paid Rs.40,000/- through cheque No.330575 to the complainant.	ANALYSIS

In fact, in his cross-examination at page-5, PW.1 made attempt to deny the payment made by the accused on 05.05.2008 through cheque No.330575 and that he had got it encashed.	ANALYSIS

 13. The above denial of the complainant as to receipt of Rs.40,000/- through cheque from the accused is proved to be false by his own witness PW.2-Smt. Manjula, Manager, Karnataka Bank, who produced account statement of the accused Smt. Rajeshwari at Ex.P.7, which discloses that the accused got encashed Rs.40,000/- through cheque No.330575, belongs to the accused on 04.05.2008.	ANALYSIS
This fact is further substantiated by the accused by producing her pass-book at Ex.D.4, issued by Karnataka bank, wherein the relevant entry is marked at Ex.D.4(a),, which clearly shows that on 04.05.2008, the accused Chandru encashed Rs.40,000/- through cheque No.330575.	ANALYSIS
Thus, accused has proved with cogent documentary evidence as to payment of Rs40,000/- by way of cheque to the complainant.	ANALYSIS
In fact, when the accused produced Ex.D.4-Passbook, while cross- examining her, it was suggested that, that amount of Rs.40,000/- was paid towards the contract pertains to the construction of the accused's house and it is not related to the transaction narrated in this case.	ANALYSIS
Thereby, the complainant admits the receipt of Rs.40,000/- from the accused.	ANALYSIS
That being the fact, the above denial by PW.1 as to receipt of Rs.40,000/- through cheque is false contention.	ANALYSIS
It shows that PW.1 has made attempt to suppress the real truth before the court.	ANALYSIS
Thereby the court has to draw an inference that he is not a reliable witness.	ANALYSIS

 14. When the accused has taken a specific defence, that the cheque Ex.P.1 was issued in respect of a separate transaction pertains to construction of her house and she had no money transaction with the complainant as narrated in the complaint and when there is evidence to show that the complainant had taken the contract work of the accused's house, the burden lies on the co to prove that the cheque Ex.P.1 was actually issued in discharge of the hand loan of Rs.85,000/- borrowed by the accused.	ANALYSIS
The accused has made out a probable case that she was due of Rs.85,000/- to the complainant and out of that Rs.40,000/- was paid through cheque and remaining amount was paid through the cash.	ANALYSIS
Though the complainant admits the receipt of Rs.40,000/- he contends it was paid not towards the loan transaction pertains to this case.	ANALYSIS
Except the self serving testimony of PW.1, absolutely there is no evidence placed by the complainant that on 05.06.2008 he had lent Rs.85,000/- to the accused and on that day the accused issued post dated cheque in his favour.	ANALYSIS
When according to the complainant the accused is due to pay the amount towards the contract work of her house, what was the occasion for him to pay hand loan to her is not forthcoming.	ANALYSIS
No prudent man under similar circumstances would lend loan of Rs.85,000/- to another, when already the other person is due to pay certain sum in respect of some other transaction.	ANALYSIS
It is relevant to mention that in her cross-examination PW.2, the Bank manager has specifically stated as follows: " rfn ZP Ag Īig 2004 QAv Az Ev. 2008 g 16 rfn ZP Ag ZAiİv.  1 ZP 2003-04   ZP DVgvzAzg j."
 	ANALYSIS
Thus, it is clear that the cheque Ex.P.1 pertains to the year 2003-2004.	ANALYSIS
If that were to be true, then issuing that cheque-Ex.P.1 on 05.06.2008 in favour of the complainant is highly improbable.	ANALYSIS
That evidence of PW.2 supports the defence of the accused that it was issued in favour of the complainant at the time of entering into the contract agreement at Ex.D.3, way back in the year 2006.	ANALYSIS
Moreover, in the cross-examination of DW.1 at page-4 it was suggested as follows: "gzgg PAmP Pɮ iqvgAzg j.
 ģ PUjAi  gzgjU PAmP P nz JAzg j.  v gzgg DU ZɣVzê JAzg j. gzgg  ģ PAmP Pɮ irz AAz g. 85 g g Q GPArz JAzg j.  1 ZP̣  gzgj U 2006  EAiİ  ģ PAmP Pɮ AAz Q Pq Ez tP Pngvã."
 	ANALYSIS
From the above suggestion, it can be make out that the complainant also admits that the accused was due to pay Rs.85,000/- towards the contract work done by him.	ANALYSIS
When DW.1 stated that Ex.P.1 was issued in the year 2006 in favour of the complainant towards that contract work, the complainant did not deny it.	ANALYSIS
Thereby, it clearly establishes that the cheque-Ex.P.1 was issued while executing the contract agreement Ex.D.3 in the year 2006.	ANALYSIS
There is no evidence led by the complainant to rebut the above evidence led by the accused.	ANALYSIS
Moreover, the amount mentioned in Ex.P.1-cheque i.e. Rs.85,000/- clearly tallies with the due amount payable by the accused to the complainant towards the contract work as suggested above to DW.1 by the complainant.	ANALYSIS
As such, the contention of the complainant that the accused issued the post dated cheque-Ex.P.1 on 05.06.2008 shall falls to the ground and that has to be disbelieved.	ANALYSIS

 15. The learned counsel for the complainant has argued that the accused has admitted her signature in the cheque and therefore the court has to draw presumption that the cheque was issued by the accused for valid consideration in discharge of legally recoverable debt.	ARG_PETITIONER
No doubt, under the N.I. Act, there are presumptions under Section 139 and 118 in favour of the complainant.	ARG_PETITIONER
But, so as to invoke that presumption, it is the bounden duty of the complainant to prove his case first, then only the court has to draw the presumption.	ARG_PETITIONER
If the complainant has failed to prove his case at the inception itself, then there is no question of drawing presumption available under law.	ARG_PETITIONER
Hence, the complainant must first satisfy the court that there exist legally enforceable debt or liability and the accused had issued the cheque in discharge of that liability.	ARG_PETITIONER
Then only the court could have proceed to draw presumption under Section 139 of the N.I.
Act.	ARG_PETITIONER
The learned counsel for the complainant has relied upon a decisions reported in 2011 (2) DCR 189 (Balwant Singh V/s Ram Singh), wherein the Hon'ble court held that signature on cheque is admitted, then the story set up by the defence that the cheque was procured under police pressure cannot be accepted in the absence of cogent evidence.	ARG_PETITIONER

Further, he also relied upon a decision reported in ILR 2007 KAR 311 (Mr. Umraz Khan V/s Mr.A.Jameel Ahmed and another), wherein the Hon'ble courts held that admission that the cheque was issued as security for repayment of loan will not make any difference and it will not take the transaction out of sweep of Sec. 138 of the N.I. Act.	ARG_PETITIONER
The principles of law laid down in the above decisions are not applicable to the facts of this case.	PRE_NOT_RELIED
In the case on hand, the accused has not admitted that the cheque Ex.P.1 was issued by her as security for the loan transaction.	ANALYSIS
On the contrary, she had totally denied the loan transaction as alleged by the complainant, but she contended that the cheque Ex.P.1 was issued towards the contract work undertaken by the complainant way back in the year 2006.	ANALYSIS
Further, the accused by leading probable evidence shown how the possession of the cheque Ex.P.1 has been passed to the complainant.	ANALYSIS

 16. Moreover, mere admission of signature in the cheque itself is not sufficient to hold that the cheque was actually issued for discharge of the loan amount mentioned therein.	ANALYSIS
At this stage, this court relies upon decisions reported in ILR 2009 KAR 2331 (B. Indramma V/s Sri.
Eshwar), wherein the Hon'ble court held as follows: "When the very factum of delivery of the cheque in question by the accused to the complainant and its receipt by the complainant from the accused itself is seriously disputed by the accused, his admission in his evidence that the cheque in question bears his signature would not be sufficient proof of the fact that he delivered the said cheque to the complainant and the latte `received it from the former' so as to raise the presumption under Section 139 of the N.I. Act."	PRE_RELIED

 17. In another decision reported in 2012 (1) DCR 385 (Santhi V/s Mary Sherly), wherein the Hon'ble court held as follows: "On consideration of the various aspects and provisions of the Act, I am of view that the contention raised by an accused in a prosecution under Section 138 of the Act that he issued a blank signed cheque will not amount to admission of execution of cheque.	PRE_RELIED
A signed blank cheque leaf is very often referred to as a blank "cheque", but, strictly speaking, it is not a "cheque" as defined under the Act.	PRE_RELIED
It can be treated only as a "cheque leaf" containing admitted signature of accused.	PRE_RELIED
 The admission of signature in a cheque leaf along will not constitute admission of execution of the cheque."
 	PRE_RELIED
The principles of law laid down in the above decisions are aptly applicable to the facts of this case.	PRE_RELIED
In the case on hand also, just because the accused has admitted her signature in Ex.P.1-cheque, that alone will not construed as admission of execution of the cheque.	ANALYSIS

 18. Of course, the accused took a contention that the legal notice is not duly served on her and therefore the complainant has not duly complied the provisions of Sec. 138 of the N.I.Act.	ANALYSIS
However, the postal endorsement on the R.P.A.D. cover- Ex.P.4 would indicate that it was returned for the reason `returned to sender as not in station'.	ANALYSIS
Though the accused contended that at the relevant point of time, she was not staying in that address.	ANALYSIS
She did not laid any evidence to prove it.	ANALYSIS
On the contrary in her cross-examination, at page-3, she admits the address mentioned Ex.P.3 notice and Ex.P.6 R.P.A.D. cover are her correct address.	ANALYSIS
If the accused contends that there is no due service of notice, then the burden lies on her to prove her contention with cogent evidence.	ANALYSIS
It is settled law that if a notice is served to the proper and correct address, though it is returned with the shara `returned unserved' it shall be deemed to be served on the accused	ANALYSIS
. In fact, the learned counsel for the complainant has relied upon the decisions reported in AIR 2005 Supreme court 109 (V.Raja Kumari V/s P. Subbarama Naidu and another), 2004 (2) DCR 384 (Nirdosh Enterprises, Hyderabad V/s State of A.P. and another), 2010 (1) DCR 766 (Babulal V/s Gafur & Another), ILR 2007 KAR 311 (Mr. Umraz Khan V/s Mr.A.Jameel Ahmed and another), 2012 (1) KCCR 156 (B.Jayarama Shetty V/s Biviyas Finance and Leasing Limited, Kundapura Taluk,), Wherein the Hon'ble courts held that though the notice was returned as refusal by the addressee, but the notice is dispatched by the sender to the correct address, then it shall be deemed to be served to the addressee.	ARG_PETITIONER
Hence, whatever contention taken by the accused about non-service of legal notice has to be rejected.	ANALYSIS

 19. However, the learned counsel for the complainant has relied upon the decisions reported in 2003(2) DCR 145 (M/s Jayam Company and another V/s T.Ravichandran) and 2012 (1) DCR 242 R.Raju V/s K.Sivasamy), wherein the Hon'ble courts held that if the accused fails to reply the notice inspite of due service of the legal notice without denying the allegations then it cannot be easily overlooked.
	ARG_PETITIONER
Of course, in the normal circumstances, non issuance of reply notice by the accused inspite of due service has to be viewed seriously.	ANALYSIS
In the case on hand, though there is deemed service, there is no proper evidence to show that it has been actually served to the accused.	ANALYSIS
Further, non-issuance of the reply notice can be taken as one of the corroborative ground so as to reject the defence of the accused.	ANALYSIS
But, that cannot be only ground to disbelieve the entire case of the accused.	ANALYSIS
In the case on hand, the accused by leading probable evidence, has put forth her defence so as to show that she has not borrowed the hand loan as asserted in the complaint, but the cheque-Ex.P.1 was issued in respect of contract work of her house given to the complainant in the year 2006.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, the above decisions are not helpful to the complainant.	PRE_RELIED
20. As per the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India reported in (2008) 2 Supreme Court Cases (Criminal) 166 (Krishna Janardhan Bhat V/s Dattatraya G.
 Hegde) and 2010 AIR SCW 2946 (Rangappa V/s Mohan) and also in the decisions relied by the learned counsel for the accused reported in 2010 (2) Kar.L.J. 284 (B. Girish V/s S.
Ramaiah), 2013 (3) KCCR 1940 (Smt. Lakshmi Subramanya v/s B.V. Nagesh	PRE_RELIED
), it was held that the standard of evidence to be led by the accused is preponderance of probabilities and not proof beyond reasonable doubt.	PRE_RELIED
On the contrary, for the complaint he should prove his case beyond all reasonable doubt.	PRE_RELIED
In other decisions reported in 2010(1) DCR 231 (N.Chiraj Travels (Pvt) Ltd. V/s Ashwani Kumar and another) and 2011 (1) DCR 254 (Mahendra Gulabchind Kohar V/s Cakharam Ramdas Patil) the Hon'ble Delhi and Bombay High courts having relied upon the decisions of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India referred supra, held that the presumption under Section 139 of N.I. Act is rebutable and the accused can prove the non- existence of any debt or liability by raising probable defence or by demolishing or discrediting the case of complainant and it is not necessary for the accused to prove his defence beyond all reasonable doubt.	PRE_RELIED
Further, this court relies upon a decision reported in 2011(3) Crimes 158 (Bom) (Sriniwas Ramdas Siwerwat V/s Shantaram Pandurang Deotale) wherein the Hon'ble Court held at page-13 as follows: "The statutory presumptions in favour of the complainant are not by themselves evidence but only make out the prima-facie case in favour of the complainant.	PRE_RELIED
They can exist, live and survive the contrary evidence is proved by the accused sufficient enough to believe that the cheques in question were not issued by the accused for any consideration / debt or liability.	PRE_RELIED
It is open for the accused to rebut the statutory presumption by proving that the cheques were not issued for any consideration or that there was no any debt or liability to be discharged by the accused.	PRE_RELIED
The accused can succeed upon proof of preponderance of probabilities."	PRE_RELIED

 The principles of law laid down in the above decisions are aptly applicable to the facts of this case.	ANALYSIS
In the case on hand also, the accused by leading cogent evidence in all probabilities proved that she issued the cheque-Ex.P1 in favour of the complainant in respect of contract work in the year 2006 and that has been misused by the complainant.	ANALYSIS

 The initial burden always lies on the complainant and if she proves her case prima facie, then onus shifts on the accused.	ANALYSIS

 Thus the complainant has failed to discharge the initial burden so as to attract the necessary ingredients of S.138 of the N.I. Act.
 21.	PRE_RELIED
In another decision reported in: AIR 2007 NOC 2612 A.P.(G. Veeresham V/s Shivashankar and Another) the Hon'ble Court has held as under: "Negotiable Instruments Act (26 of 1881), S.138 Dishonour of cheque  Presumptions available to complainant under S.118 and S.139 of Act- Rebuttal of cheque in question was allegedly issued by accused to discharge hand loan taken from complainant.	PRE_RELIED
However, no material placed on record by complainant to prove alleged lending of hand loan said fact is sufficient to infer that accused is liable to rebut presumptions available in favour of complainant under sections 118 and 139 of Act, Order acquitting accused for offence under S.138, proper".
 	PRE_RELIED
The principle of law laid down in the above decision is applicable to the facts of this case.	ANALYSIS
In the case on hand also, as discussed above, the complainant has failed to prove with cogent evidence as to the lending of loan of Rs.85,000/- to the accused.	ANALYSIS
Thus, that fact itself is sufficient to infer that accused is able to rebut presumptions available in favour of complainant under sections 118 and 139 of the N.I.Act.	ANALYSIS
In a decision reported in AIR 2006 Supreme Court 3366 (M.S.Narayana Menon alias Mani V/s State of Kerala & Anr.), the Hon'ble Apex court held that once the accused discharges the initial burden placed on him the burden of proof would revert back to the prosecution.	PRE_RELIED
In this case on hand also, the accused has proved in all probability that she is not liable to pay Ex.P1-cheque amount of Rs. 85,000/- and it is not legally recoverable debt.	PRE_RELIED
So, the burden is on the complainant to prove strictly with cogent and believable evidence that the accused has borrowed the cheque amount and she is legally liable to pay the same.	PRE_RELIED
But, except some inconsistent and improbable evidences as discussed above, the complainant has failed to prove with satisfactory evidence the lending of Rs.85,000/- loan to the accused.	ANALYSIS
Just because, there is a presumption under Section 139 of N.I.
Act, that will not create any special right to the complainant so as to initiate a proceeding against the drawer of the cheque who is not at all liable to pay the cheque amount.	ANALYSIS
From the above elaborate discussions, it very much clear that the complainant has failed to adduce cogent and corroborative evidence to show that accused has issued cheque- Ex.P.1 in discharge of her legally payable debt for valid consideration.	ANALYSIS

On the other hand, the accused has successfully rebutted the legal presumptions under Section 139 and 118 of Negotiable Instruments Act.
 22.	ANALYSIS

Basically, insertion of the penal provision under section 138 of the N.I. Act, 1881, is to maintain a healthy business transaction between the people based on faith, belief and understanding.	ANALYSIS
That is why, the drawer of a cheque should not be allowed to abuse the accommodation given to him by a creditor.	ANALYSIS
At the same time, the payee or holder of a cheque cannot be permitted to use that penal provision under law as a weapon for unlawful gain or to harass the debtor.	ANALYSIS
To initiate a penal action under Section 138 of the N.I.Act, against a drawer of a cheque, there should not be any kind of lapse or lacuna on the part of the holder of a cheque.	ANALYSIS
Because, the proceeding under section 138 of the N.I.Act is not for recovery of money but to punish a dishonest and incredible debtor, who intentionally tries to escape from his liability.	ANALYSIS
That is why, it is the duty of the complainant in a given case under the NI Act, 1881, to place a stable and firm case on his behalf before the court.	ANALYSIS
When the case of the complainant is shaky, unstable, untrustworthy and doubtful one, then in the opinion of this court, no presumption that is available under law will come to his help.	ANALYSIS
In the case on hand, the accused has taken several contentions before the court and made out grounds to show that the case of the complainant is highly improbable.	ANALYSIS
The conduct of the complainant shows his dishonest intention to defraud the accused and for wrongful gain filed this false compliant against the accused.
 23.	ANALYSIS
From the documents produced before the court it is very much clear that within 6 months from the date of cheque the complainant has presented the cheque for encashment and within one month from the date of issuance of the bank memo, the complainant has issued notice to the accused and after 15 days from the date of service of the said notice to the accused, within one month the complainant has filed this complaint before this court.	ANALYSIS
As such, the complainant has complied with all the statutory requirements so as to initiate a proceeding under Section 138 of N.I. Act.	ANALYSIS

But, the fact to be considered is, when the complainant has failed to prove that there was legally recoverable debt and in discharge of that debt only cheque-Ex.P.1 was issued, even if the legal notice was served on the accused and the accused has failed to pay the cheque amount, still the accused cannot be found fault with.	ANALYSIS
Because, when the accused is not liable to pay the amount demanded under the notice, then, the accused is not liable to pay the amount what is demanded under the notice.	ANALYSIS
In the opinion of this court, the accused has got every right not to pay that amount so demanded under the notice.	ANALYSIS
The drawee has no right to demand any amount, which is not legally recoverable from the drawer of the cheque.	ANALYSIS
Hence, non-payment of the cheque amount as demanded by the complainant under the notice cannot be termed as intentional default on the part of the accused to pay the cheque amount.	ANALYSIS

 24. On perusal of the entire oral and documentary evidence placed on record on behalf of both the parties, it is clear that, the case of the complainant is not cogent, convincing, corroborative and trustworthy.	RATIO
The material omissions, inconsistencies, discrepancies and contradictions in the evidence of P.W.1 itself is sufficient to rebut the legal presumptions available in favour of the complainant.	RATIO
Thus, this court is of the considered view that the complainant has failed to prove his case beyond all reasonable doubt.	RATIO

Accordingly point Nos.1 and 2 are answered in the `Negative'.
 25. Point no.3:-	RPC
Having thus discussed in detail, this court proceed to pass the following: ORDER Acting under Sec.255 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973, the accused is found not guilty and she is acquitted for the offence punishable under Sec.138 of Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881.	RPC

 The bail bond and surety bond of the accused stands cancelled.	RPC

 [Dictated to the Stenographer in the open court, corrected, signed and then pronounced by me in the Open Court on this the 31st day of October 2013] (H.Shashidhara Shetty), Prl. I Civil Judge and J.M.F.C., Mysore A N N E X U R E S List of witnesses examined on behalf of the complainant: PW-1    D.Chandru Pw.2    Manjula List of documents marked on behalf of the Complainant: Ex.P.1  Cheque Ex.P.2      Bank memo Ex.P.3      Notice Ex.P.4      C.O.P.
Ex.P.5      Postal receipt Ex.P.6      Unserved R.P. cover Ex.P.6(a)   Unserved notice Ex.P.7      Account statement List of witnesses examined marked on behalf of the accused: D.W.1 Rajeshwari List of documents marked on behalf of the accused: Ex.D.1      letter Ex.D.1(a)   Signature Ex.D.2 & 3  Agreement Ex.D.2(a)   Signature 3(a) Ex.D.4      Pass book Prl. I Civil Judge and J.M.F.C., Mysore Judgement pronounced in the open court (Vide separate order)	NONE
 ORDER	RPC
Acting under Sec.255 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973, the accused is found not guilty and she is acquitted for the offence punishable under Sec.138 of Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881.	RPC

 The bail bond and surety bond of the accused stands cancelled.	RPC

 Prl. I Civil Judge and J.M.F.C., Mysore 2010 (2) DCR 73 (Gujrat Ambuja Proteins Limited V/s Rajeev Khandelwal and others) ILR 2005 KAR 409 Supreme Court (V.Raja Kumari V/s P.Subbarama Naidu and another) AIR 2010 Supreme Court 1898 (Rangappa V/s Mohan) ILR 2008 KAR 1883 Latha K.Nair V/s M/s Gold Mohar Foods and Feeds Ltd., 2011 (2) DCR 189 (Balwant Singh V/s Ram Singh)	NONE
