IN THE COURT OF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE FIRST CLASS, ROURKELA

PRESENT:
               Smt. Neesha Samal,LLM.
               JMFC,ROURKELA
               	PREAMBLE
Date of Judgment: .... 9.08.2016	PREAMBLE
CRL. MISC.	PREAMBLE
CASE NO. 9 of 2016	PREAMBLE
Application under section 12 of Protection of Women from Domestic

                                                        Violence Act,2005

       Smt. Renubala Ghadai ,	PREAMBLE
aged about 22 years,	PREAMBLE
W/o Sk. Saburuddin, Resident of
        Sector 7 Laxmibasti, PS- Sector-7, Rourkela-3, Dist- Sundergarh, Odisha

                                                               .............. Petitioner/	PREAMBLE
Aggrieved Person.
                                                      -	PREAMBLE
versus 
         	PREAMBLE
1. Sk. Saburuddin@ Raju, S/O- Md. Hussain,	PREAMBLE

         2. Md. Hussain,
         3.	PREAMBLE
Rukaiya Begum, W/O- Md. Hussain,	PREAMBLE

All are residents of R.D.A Building, LIG-I, Room No. 9/10, Jabahar Nagar, Mahatab
Road,Ps- Plantsite, Rourkela-1, Dist- Sundergarh,Odisha-769001.

                                                                       .......... Respondent/	PREAMBLE
Opp.parties	PREAMBLE


Counsel for Aggrieved person	PREAMBLE
 ... Adv. A. Dutta, U. Satpathy & A.	PREAMBLE

                                                              Kumbhar

                                    	PREAMBLE
ORDER
 1.	PREAMBLE
This order arises out of an application filed by the present petitioner against the opposite parties U/s 12 of Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act 2005 herein referred to as the PWDV Act .	FAC
2. The case of the petitioner is that the petitioner and the respondent No.1 are legally married husband and wife and their marriage was solemnised on 09.09.2011 and consummated at Rourkela in the resident of the petitioner.	FAC
This being a love marriage, the respondent took the petitioner to Angul giving assurance that he will take the petitioner to her matrimonial house after giving due information to his parents about such marriage.	FAC
Whenever the petitioner made a request to the respondent to take her to her matrimonial house the respondent became angry and assaulted the petitioner.	FAC
The petitioner and the respondent lived in Angul for 2 and half years , then the petitioner and the respondent shifted to Lanji Berna and resided there for two years.	FAC
At that time the petitioner became pregnant and got admitted in Govt. Hospital, Panposh for her delivery .The respondent came there and bore all the expenses of the hospital , but when he saw some of his relatives in the hospital he flew away.	FAC
After some time he came back and asked the petitioner that if anybody asks her about her relationship with the respondent she should not disclose the fact that he is her husband.	FAC
Tolerating all the hardships, the petitioner gave birth to a male child on 17.01.2015 and named him as Sk. Farhan Raza .Then	FAC
the petitioner again made repeated request to take her and her son to their matrimonial house but the respondent kept silent.	FAC
Finding no other way the petitioner went to her parents house with her new born baby as there was no one take care of her and her child .After passing of 2 to 3 months	FAC
the petitioner again requested the respondent to take her to her matrimonial house and as a result the respondent tortured her physically and mentally	FAC
.On 07.10.2015	FAC
the respondent called the petitioner and asked her to visit his house at RDA building , LIG-1,Jabahar nagar, Mahatab road PS- Plantsite ,Dist-Sundargarh .The	FAC
petitioner visited the respondent's house , but the respondents family without knowing who she was showed good behavior to the petitioner .But	FAC
afterwards when they came to know about the relationship between the respondent and the petitioner they made several threatening calls to the petitioner and asked her not to disclose about her identity to any person in there locality.	FAC
On this the petitioner took the shelter of law and approached the Mahila PS and lodged a FIR against the respondent on 15.10.2015.As soon as the respondent came to know about this police case they agreed to take the petitioner to their house and the petitioner lived in her matrimonial house for 1 and half months.	FAC
On 02.12.2015 the respondent no.1 , his father , mother , brother and sister in law drove the petitioner and her minor child out of their house and finding no other way the petitioner took the shelter in her parental house and is presently living on the mercy of others.	FAC
The petitioners submits that the respondent no.1 is a driver by profession and obtains a salary of about Rs.20,000/- per month and on the other hand the petitioner and her minor child are living on the mercy of others .	FAC
The respondent has neglected the petitioner.	FAC
As the petitioner had been subjected to domestic violence she had taken the shelter of law by filling the present petition for the under mentioned reliefs: (1) Protection order U/s 18 of PWDV Act.
(2) Residence order U/s 19 of PWDV Act.
(3) Monetary reliefs U/s 20 of PWDV Act.
(4) Compensation U/s 22 of PWDV Act.
2.	FAC
The respondent has not not appeared in this case nor put forth his case by filing any show cause or adducing any evidence for his defense.	FAC
The domestic incident report was received and despite of giving all the opportunities to the respondent, he did not contest the case and hence was set ex parte.	FAC

4. Considering the allegations made by the petitioner the following points are required to be determined for adjudication of the petition: 1. Whether there existed any domestic relationship between the petitioner and respondents ?
 2. Whether any acts of domestic violence had been committed against the petitioner by the respondents?
         3.	ISSUE
Whether this court has jurisdiction to try any proceeding for alleged acts of domestic violence ?	ISSUE

         4. Whether the petitioner is entitled to any reliefs under the PWDV Act.?	ISSUE
5. The petitioner in order to establish her allegations had examined herself as a witness in shape of an affidavit.	ISSUE
She has adduced oral evidence in her favour and also examined her mother as another witness in this case.	ISSUE
6. The petitioner had filed the present petition U/S 12 of PWDV Act for taking shelter under the beneficiary provisions of PWDV Act.	ISSUE
The primary thing which needs to be seen is whether any domestic relationship existed between the petitioner and the respondents.	ANALYSIS
Domestic relationship is defined U/s 2(f) of PWDV Act which lays down that domestic relationship between two persons who live or have at any point of time lived together in a shared household, when they are related by consanguinity, marriage or through a relationship in nature of marriage, adoption or are family members living together in a joint family.	STA
In the present case as per the petition and as the petitioner deposed before the court that she was married to the respondent on 09.09.2011 at Shiv temple near Sec-7.At that time the petitioner did not know the full name of the accused and he had said his name was Raju and he is a Bengali by caste.	ANALYSIS
After marriage the petitioner came to know the full name of the respondent as Sk.Sabiruddin @ raju and that he was muslim by religion.	ANALYSIS
After marriage they stayed in her mother's house for two months and consummated their marriage and after two months the respondent took the petitioner to Angul and they lived there in a rented house for two years.	ANALYSIS
There the petitioner made repeated requests to the respondent to take her to her matrimonial house, but every time the respondent said that since he had married her without informing his family, first he would inform his family about such marriage then take the petitioner to meet his family.	ANALYSIS
Whenever the petitioner asked the respondent to inform his family about their marriage , the respondent would deny and start quarreling with her , abuse her and assault her .She	ANALYSIS
was subjected to physical and mental torture for two years living with the respondent at Angul, but she kept quite with the hope that every thing will be fine one day.	ANALYSIS

After two years they shifted to Lanji Berna ,Dist-Sundargarh and lived there in a rented house for 2 years.	ANALYSIS
There the petitioner became pregnant	ANALYSIS
.During	ANALYSIS
her delivery	ANALYSIS
the respondent took her to the govt hospital (RGH) and bore all the medical expenses.	ANALYSIS
But when the petitioner was in labour room , the respondent was standing out and he saw some of his relatives in that hospital and ran away from their	ANALYSIS
, after some time he came back and said the petitioner that if any body asks her about him she should not disclose his identity and their relationship but should say that she is the wife of a friend of the respondent.	ANALYSIS
The petitioner gave birth to a son on 17.01.2015 and named him Sk.Farahan Raza.	ANALYSIS
After that the petitioner again made requests to the respondent to take her and her new borne baby to her matrimonial house but again the respondent denied with the plea that he had not yet informed his parents about them and again started torturing her and assaulting her	ANALYSIS
.Then the respondent left the petitioner alone in her house .Since there was no one to look after her and take her son's care	ANALYSIS
, she went to live in her maternal house.	ANALYSIS
After 2 to 3 mothers the respondent returned to the petitioner .She	ANALYSIS
again asked the respondent to take her to his house and then the respondent said that his prestige would be hampered if he takes her to his house and the respondent threatened her to desert her and throw her on the road from where he had brought her	ANALYSIS
.On 07.10.2015	ANALYSIS
the respondent telephoned the petitioner and asked her to go to his house and see the truth	ANALYSIS
.The petitioner along with her mother went to the respondent's house and the respondent's family behaved very normally with the petitioner ignorant of the fact of marriage between the petitioner and the respondent .Then	ANALYSIS
the petitioner left from the house of the respondent and then the respondents family came to know about the relationship between petitioner and respondent no.1 .Then	ANALYSIS
they made repeated calls to her and abused her and threatened her over telephone .On 15.10.2015	ANALYSIS
the petitioner reported the matter in mahila PS .When	ANALYSIS
the respondent's family came to know about this case they came and took the petitioner and her child to their house and they lived there for 2 months.	ANALYSIS
But on 2.12.15 the respondent , his mother, father,brother and sister-in-law drove her and her minor son out of their house and she took shelter at her maternal house.	ANALYSIS

The petitioner examined her mother as a witness.	ANALYSIS
She completely supported the version of the petitioner.	ANALYSIS
She stated that the respondent no.1 married her daughter on 9.9.2009.	ANALYSIS
Then they stayed together in Angul.	ANALYSIS

Petitioner always insisted the respondent to take her to his house but he paid no heed , rather assaulted and abused the petitioner and subjected her to cruelty.	ANALYSIS
Then after 2 years the couple came and stayed in Lanji Berna for two years.	ANALYSIS
There her daughter became pregnant and at the time of delivery of her daughter in RGH, the respondent no.1 left her in hospital and after some time came back and asked her daughter not to disclose his identity and his relationship with him.	ANALYSIS
After some days the respondent left the petitioner alone with her new born baby.	ANALYSIS
As there was no one to take care of the petitioner and her child, so her mother took the petitioner and her child to her house.	ANALYSIS
There they stayed for 3-4 months.	ANALYSIS
Respondent visited the petitioner and when she asked to take her to his house he abused her.	ANALYSIS
Then one day she took her daughter and her grandson to the house of the respondent but found that the respondents family was not aware of this marriage.	ANALYSIS
When they knew about the relationship between petitioner and respondent no.1 they threatened and assaulted them.	ANALYSIS
Finding no other way the petitioner lodged FIR against the respondents and getting news about such police case the respondents took the petitioner to their house where she stayed for 2-3 months and after that the respondent drove the petitioner out of their house.	ANALYSIS
Since then the petitioner with her minor child are living in the house of her mother being dependent on her.	ANALYSIS
They are poor and unable to maintain themselves.	ANALYSIS
The respondent has completely neglected the petitioner and his son and hence is liable to maintain them.	ANALYSIS
The above evidence clearly shows that the aggrieved person and respondent no. 1 are related to each other through marriage and had lived together in a shared household in the house of petitioner,Angul,Lanji Berna and in their house of the respondent.	ANALYSIS
The other two respondent being the father in law and mother in law respectively of the petitioner have also lived together at some point of time in their house with the petitioner.	ANALYSIS
The respondent being set ex parte, the above fact of domestic relationship between the petitioner and respondent remains unchallenged and unrebutted.	ANALYSIS
Thus the inter se relationship between the parties have been well proved and they were living together in a shared household after their marriage.	ANALYSIS
Therefore the primary point which needed to be determined is established that their existed a domestic relationship between the parties.	ANALYSIS
7. Nextly, moving on to the allegations of the petitioner that she was subjected to cruelty and violence by the respondents.	ANALYSIS
On this point only one part of story is available before this court that is the allegations as put forth by the aggrieved person.	ANALYSIS
As per the petition of the aggrieved persons and her evidence in chief and the evidence of her mother it is seen that at first the respondent no 1 lied the petitioner about his religion and subsequently the petitioner came to know about the truth about his religion and they got married.	ANALYSIS
Then instead of taking the petitioner to his house the respondent stayed in the house of the petitioner.	ANALYSIS
Then the petitioner made repeated requests to the respondent to take her to his house but every time the respondent denied taking the plea that since they have married without informing his parents so he will first inform them and then take her home.	ANALYSIS

Whenever the petitioner insisted the respondent to take her to his house he physically assaulted the petitioner,abused her and subjected her to cruelty.	ANALYSIS

During the delivery of the petitioner he left her alone to hide from his relatives and asked the petitioner not to disclose about his identity and their relationship to anyone.	ANALYSIS
Then the respondent left the petitioner with her new born baby alone in his home due to which she went to her mothers house.	ANALYSIS

And finally when the respondent asked the petitioner to go to his house, he had not informed his family about his relationship with the petitioner and when they knew the truth they abused her assaulted her and threatened her and her mother because of which the petitioner was forced to report the matter before police.	ANALYSIS
And when the respondents came to know about the police case out of fear they took the petitioner and her child to their house but again after two to three months ousted her from their house.	ANALYSIS
The respondent works as a driver and earns about Rs 20,000/- per month but the petitioner is unemployed with a minor child and has no source of earning to maintain herself and her son and hence is depended on her parents.	ANALYSIS
The above allegations have in no way been challenged or disproved by the respondent being set ex parte.	ANALYSIS
The above allegations have been well proved through the domestic incident report as submitted by the protection officer.	ANALYSIS
From the above discussions it is clear that the petitioner was completely cheated by the respondent regarding his identity and he kept his relationship and marriage completely hidden from his family and in his domestic relationship he subjected the petitioner to mental and physical cruelty .	ANALYSIS
The allegations put forth by her was supported by the DIR report and the same could in no way be rebutted in any manner by the respondent.	ANALYSIS
The ill treatment of the respondents forced her to leave her matrimonial house for her safety and these acts come under the purview of Section 3 of PWDV Act which defines what is domestic violence.	ANALYSIS
The Acts of the respondent are sure to have caused emotional abuse to the petitioner.	ANALYSIS
Considering the allegation of the petitioner and the fact that she was subjected to domestic violence it cannot be a subject matter of dispute any more.	ANALYSIS
8. The acts of domestic violence against petitioner having been established the next factor is that whether the court has jurisdiction to adjudicate in any such matter ?	ANALYSIS
Section 27 of PWDV Act lays down that the court of jurisdiction Magistrate of the place where the aggrieved person temporarily or permanently resides or carries on business or is employed, the place where respondent resides or carries on business or is employed or the place where the cause of action arose shall be competent to pass order under this court.	STA
It is forthcoming from the petitioner's evidence that both the petitioner and respondent were residing at Rourkela the cause of action arose at Rourkela and the petitioner had filed the case while residing in her parental house in Rourkela.	ANALYSIS
Hence this court has jurisdiction to adjudicate the matter under this act in this case.	ANALYSIS

 9. The existence of domestic relationship between the parties, the commission of Acts of domestic violence against the petitioner and the jurisdiction of this court having been established now arise the most pivotal point regarding the reliefs which are claimed by the petitioner .	ANALYSIS
The petitioner has claimed protection order U/s 18 of PWDV Act.	ARG_PETITIONER
Considering the fact that the petitioner had been subjected to physical and emotional abuse and for her safety and well being this court feels it just to grant protection order U/s 18 of PWDV Act and the respondent no 1 and respondent no 2 & 3 are directed not to commit any act of domestic violence against the petitioner or aid or abate in the commission of the acts of domestic violence against the petitioner and her minor son and not to interfere in her peaceful living.	RPC

 The petitioner has prayed for residence order u/s 19 of PWDV Act.	ARG_PETITIONER
At present the petitioner is residing in her parental house.	ANALYSIS
The petitioner prays to live in the rented house of the respondent from where she was driven out by the respondent.	ARG_PETITIONER
The respondent no 1 is directed to allow the petitioner along with her son to live in his house with him that is RDA building, LIG-I, Room no 9/10, Jabahar nagar, Mahtab road, PS Plantsite, dist- Sundergarh and all the respondents are directed not top restraint the petitioner in living in that house and no to interfere in her peaceful living in that part of the house and not to commit any acts of domestic violence to her and her son.	RPC

The petitioner prays the court to direct the respondent to remove himself from the shared household.	ARG_PETITIONER
In this light no direction or order can be passed against the respondent no 1 but the parties are at liberty that if they mutually agree then they can live separately in a rented house together as before and in that event the respondent is directed to properly maintain the petitioner and her son and not to commit any act of domestic violence towards her.	ANALYSIS
The aggrieved person also prays for monetary relief U/s 20 of PWDV Act.	ARG_PETITIONER
Considering the fact that the petitioner is presently living with her minor son in house of her parents separately from the respondent.	ANALYSIS
The aggrieved person is unemployed and presently living in the charity of her parents .She and her minor son are completely depended on her parents being completely neglected by the respondent.	ANALYSIS
The respondent has a prim duty to maintain his family.	ANALYSIS
So the respondent is directed to pay Rs.10,000 per month towards the maintenance of the aggrieved person and his minor son and if both the parties live together then take proper care of the aggrieved person and his son and maintain them.	RPC
The aggrieved person has also prayed for compensation U/s 22 of PWDV Act.	RATIO
The fact that due to the acts of domestic violence of the respondent the aggrieved person suffered mental agony is facing all sorts of difficulties to maintain herself and her minor son.	RATIO
She is leading a miserable life taking all the responsibilities of her son, hence the respondent is directed to pay Rs.50,000 as a compensation to the aggrieved person for the emotional distress caused to her.	RATIO

 ORDER	RPC
The Misc case be and the same is allowed against the respondent ex parte.	RPC
The respondents are hereby prohibited from committing,aiding or abetting any acts of domestic violence against the petitioner and not to interfere in her peaceful living.	RPC
The respondent is directed to allow the petitioner and her son to live with him in the shared household of the respondent and the other respondents are directed not to interfare in the peaceful living of the petitioner in her part of the shared houseghold and not to commit any acts of domestic violence against the aggrieved person, pay a monthly maintenance of Rs.10,000 every month to the aggrieved person for her maintenance and maintenance of her minor son, pay compensation of Rs.50,000 to the petitioner for the mental agony caused to her in case bpth the parties agree to live separately in a rented house as befgore the respondent shall not commit any act of domestic violence against her in future.	RPC
The monthly maintenance is to be paid to the aggrieved person from the date of filling of this misc case to the aggrieved persons.	RPC
The above orders passed by this court are to be complied by the respondent and in the event of failure to comply the above orders, the petitioner shall be at the liberty to take shelter of court.	RPC
Issue free copy of the order to the petitioner and the respondent.	RPC
Send an extract of this order to the IIC of Sector-7 PS and IIC of Plantsite PS and the Protection Officer, Sundergarh.	RPC

 This order is dictated, corrected by me and pronounced the in the open court today on this the 9th day of August, 2016 under my signature and seal of the court.	NONE

 Judicial Magistare First Class, Rourkela List of witnesses examined for the Aggrieved Person: PW.1: Bharati Bhoina P.W.2:Durga Bhoina	NONE
List of witnesses examined for the Respondent: NIL List of exhibits marked by Aggrieved Person: NIL List of exhibits marked by Respondents NIL Judicial Magistrate First Class, Rourkela	NONE
