PETITIONER:
PRABHUDAYAL AND OTHERS

Vs.

RESPONDENT:
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA

DATE OF JUDGMENT14/05/1993

BENCH:
YOGESHWAR DAYAL (J)
BENCH:
YOGESHWAR DAYAL (J)
KULDIP SINGH (J)

CITATION:               1993 SCR (3) 878
 1993 AIR 2164          JT 1993 (4) 475
 1993 SCC (3) 573
 1993 SCALE (2)941

ACT:
%
Indian Penal Code 1860-Ss. 302, 498A, 201 read with 34 and
S. 306 read with 34-Burning of young married woman-Whether
death by burning or strangulation-Whether suicide or
homicide-Held, facts indicate homicide, and death by
strangulation preceding burning.	PREAMBLE

Circumstantial Evidence-Held, cumulative effect or
circumstances negatives innocence of father-in-Law and
husband--Mother-in-law and Sister-in-law may not have
participated, hence, acquitted.	PREAMBLE
HEADNOTE:
Sangita was married to accused 2 on 28th April, 1984.	PREAMBLE
In
the intervening night of 14115 September 1984, the accused
found Sangita burning.	PREAMBLE
Sangita's body suffered 100% burns
and the smell of kerosene was noticed even in the spot
panchnama.	PREAMBLE
There had been problems relating to dowry, and
she had complained of ill-treatment and of being beaten
because of failure to pay the dowry amount.	PREAMBLE

The trial judge acquitted accused 1-4 - her father-in-law,
husband, mother-in-law and sister-in-law respectively.	PREAMBLE

The High Court examined the evidence a fresh, while
castigating the trial judge for having gone merely on the
statement of the Public Prosecutor that only a case under
Ss. 306, 498-A and 34 was made out.	PREAMBLE
The High Court
Convicted the accused under S.302 r/w 34, S.201 r/w 34 and
498-A r/w 34.
Partly dismissing the appeal, this Court..
HELD: 1.	PREAMBLE
It was a case of murder and not suicidal death.	PREAMBLE

It is not possible that there were no 'cries' from the
deceased while she was burning.	PREAMBLE
This is not possible even
in a case of suicide.	PREAMBLE

Some of the symptoms of internal and external injuries are
common in
879
case (if strangulation and burns.	PREAMBLE
But some symptoms that
occur in the case of strangulation, and not in case of
burns	PREAMBLE
, are present in this case.	PREAMBLE

Dr. K.S. Narayan Reddy, The Essentials of Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology 6th edn. p. 55, relied on.

2.	PREAMBLE
The prosecution rests its case only on circumstantial
evidence.	PREAMBLE
Therefore, it is necessary to examine the
impelling circumstances attending the case and examine
whether the cumulative effect of those circumstances
negatives the innocence of the appellant-,; and serves a
definite pointer towards their guilt and unerringly leads to
the conclusion that with all human probability the offence
was committed by the appellants and none else.
State of U.P. v. Dr. Ravindra prakash Mittal, JT(1992) 2 SC
114 at 121. applied.	PREAMBLE

Taylor, Medical jurisprudence, relied on.	PREAMBLE

On an appreciation of the circumstances which arc
established as being closely linked to one another, the
complicity of appellants 1 and 2 is not in doubt.	PREAMBLE
But it is
not necessary that appellants 3 and 4 also participated in
the murder of the deceased.	PREAMBLE
They are given the benefit of
doubt and accordingly acquitted.	PREAMBLE


JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION:	NONE
Criminal Appeal No. 738 of 1992.	NONE

 From the Judgment and Order dated 16.11.1992 of the Bombay High Court in Crl. A. No. 148 of 1989.	NONE

A.N. Mulla, Ms. Shefali Khanna and J.M. Khanna for the Appellant.	NONE

S.B. Bhasme, S.M. Jadhav and A.S. Bhasme for the Respondents.	NONE

The Judgment of the Court was delivered by YOGESHWAR DAYAL, J.	NONE
This is an appeal by the four accused persons against the judgment of the Bombay High Court dated 16th November. 1992.	FAC
Appellant No. 1 who was accused No. 1 was tried for the offence of having 880 committed the murder of his daughter-in-law Sangita, wife of appellant No. 2 who was accused No.2, during the night between 14th September, 1984 and 15th September, 1984 at the residential house of the appellants at Murtizapur with common intention and also for having treated her with cruelty on account of dowry amount.	FAC
In the alternative the appellants were also charged for the offence of having abetted the deceased Sangita in commission of suicide by subjecting her to cruelty.	FAC
Appellant no.3, who was accused No.3, is the wife of accused No.1 and appellant No.4, who was accused No. 4. is their daughter.	FAC
Appellants 1 to 4 are hereinafter called accused Nos. 1 to 4.	FAC

The story of the prosecution was as follows:- The accused run a printing press at their residence.
Marriage of accused No. 2 was settled with the 5th daughter of Madan lal (PW. 8).	FAC
Few days prior to the settlement of the marriage.	FAC
marriage of her elder sister was also settled.	FAC

As such marriages of both the daughters i.e. Sangita and Hemlata were celebrated at Paratwada on 28th April, 1994.	FAC

Talk over the marriage had taken place about a month prior to the marriage and the same was finalised after about 2 or 3 days of such talks.	FAC
At the time of finalisation, accused No. 1 demanded Rs. 20,000 by way of hard cash as dowry, besides other articles, add he himself had given such demands in writing vide Ext. 73.	FAC
Though agreed, Madan Lal, father of the deceased could not give Rs. 20,000 at the time of marriage.	FAC
He also could not give the gold agreed, though he assured to comply with the demands later on getting the crops.	FAC
After the marriage, on account of the month of Shrawan, and as per custom, Sangita resided with her parents.	FAC
It was during her stay after the marriage that she was found disturbed and sullen.	FAC
Though she herself did not give out the reason therefore, but on insistence by the father to know the reason she told him that accused No. 1 had an evil eve on her and that other members of the family used to beat and ill treat her because of the failure on the part of Madan Lai to pay the dowry amount.	FAC
Though Madan lal assured that he would come down to Murtizapur and pursued the accused, but he could not visit Murtizapur.	FAC
After the month of Shrawan, Sangita returned to Murtizapur but not communication was made about her safe return by the accused persons to her father.	FAC
The accused persons had a telephone connection and Madan Lal (PW.8), two three days prior to the date of the incident contacted accused No. 1 on telephone.	FAC
Accused No. 1 talked angrily with Madan Lal.	FAC

Madan Lal then requested accused No. 1 to call Sangita on telephone.	FAC
Sangita came on phone and in answer to his query she broke down and Stated weeping and told Madan lal as to why he did not send Ganesh Chaturthi Neg','Neg' means a customary offer that the father of the bride has to pay on an auspicious day.	FAC
It varies according to financial capacity of the father.	FAC
He told 881 Sangita that he had committed it mistake and assured that he would be sending it immediately.	FAC
On the next day lie had got drawn a draft of Rs. 101/- on State Bank of India.	FAC
Ext.
74-A is the said draft.	FAC
It was thereafter when Madan Lai was on a visit to Amravati that Madan Lal received a message about Sangita having got burnt on 15th September, 1984.	FAC

During the night between 14th and 15th September. 1984 at about midnight the accused found Sangita not in her bed and smell of burning.	FAC
They found that in the rear side open space Sangita was burning and lying down.	FAC
According to the defence the doors were closed from inside and there was no access to the said open space.	FAC
Accused No. 1 informed the police about the occurrence that he had seen through the window opening on the )pen space.	FAC
Accused No. 1 at about 3.45 a.m. on 15th September, 1994 submitted it report (Ext.82) to the police wherein he had stated that about 2.
10 a.m. in the night Sangita was found to be burnt and died in the bath-room.	FAC
PW.9. Mundheh.	FAC
the investigating Officer gave instructions to the accused persons not to disturb the situation.	FAC
Initially on the report of the accused, accidental death was registered.	FAC
PW9 when reached the spot on 15th September. 1984 at about 10.00 a.m. he made spot Panchnama vide ext.63.	FAC
He also found a postcard.	FAC
half burnt, (Ext. 62) by the side of the dead body.	FAC
He thereafter drew inquest panchnama (Ext.64).	FAC
PW. 1 Bhanudas acted as a panch.	FAC

PW.9 having convinced that it was a case of murder, lodged it report on behalf of the State registering the offence punishable under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code.	FAC
Dr. Lande, PW.3, on 15th September, 1994 at about 5.00 p.m. conducted the post-mortem.	FAC
The Additional Sessions Judge on the basis of the material filed with the challan.	FAC
on 30th September, 1994 trained a charge under Sections 302.499-A and 201 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal code and thereafter recorded the evidence of PWs. 1 to 9.	FAC
Thereafter by an order dated 22nd August, 1988 the trial court framed an additional charge for the offence punishable under Section 306 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code.	RLC
The accused persons challenged the framing of the additional charge before the High Court but the challenge was defeated.	FAC
The accused persons were accordantly tried.	FAC
Their defence through out was a total denial.	FAC

 It appears that during arguments the Prosecutor did not think it proper to press for the diffence punishable under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the Indian penal Code.	FAC

According to the Prosecutor the only case made out was for the offences punishable under Sections 306, 498-A read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code.	FAC
The trial court endorsed the view of the Public Prosecutor and did not 882 discuss the relevant evidence it all on the charge of Section 302 and recorded a finding of acquittal in that behalf.	RLC
He also held that the charge of Section 201 also did not survive.	RLC
The learned trial Judge also held that the prosecution hits not been able it) prove that the accused persons with their common intention treated Sangita with cruelty or thereby abetted her to commit suicide.	RLC
He accordingly acquired all the accused persons for the offence punishable under Section 306 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code.	RLC

The State filed all appeal against their order of acquittal and the High Court on appeal castigated the trial judge for having gone merely oil the statement of the public Prosecutor without applying his own mind on the evidence.	FAC

The High Court examined the evidence afresh.	FAC
The High Court posed a question is to whether the nature of death of Sangita was suicidal or homicidal and ultimately gave a finding that it was a case of homicidal death and found all the accused guilty under Section 302 read With Section 34 and Section 201 read with Section 34.	RLC
The accused were also find guilty under Sections 498-A read with Section 34.	RLC
For the offence under Section 302 read with Section 34 all of them were sentenced to rigorous imprisonment `for life and different fines.	RLC
For the offence under Section 201 read with Section 34 all the accused persons were sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for three years and each of them was fined Rs.1,000/-.	RLC
For the offence under Section 498-A read with Section 34 all of them were sentenced to one year rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs.2,000.	RLC

Learned counsel for the defence, however, submitted before the High Court that the charge under Section 302 read with Section 34 did not survive tit view of the concession made by the Prosecutor and also in view of the framing of the additional charge under Section 306 read with Section 34.	FAC

It was also submitted that the framing of the additional charge negated the theory of murder in pith and substance.	FAC

The High Court, however negatived this submission and on consideration of the evidence convicted all the accused persons as stated above.	RLC

Body of Sangita suffered 100% burn injuries and smell of kerosene was even noticed in the spot panchanama.	FAC
The description 1005 burn does not really fully 883 convey the condition of the body.	FAC
Asper the inquest report the dead body was lying on its back in the open court-yard at the back side of the house of the accused.	FAC
Both the legs were partly stiffen.	FAC
Both the hands were partly bent and lying at side.	FAC
Hairs on the head burnt and-even fleshy portion is also burnt at some places.	FAC
There was slight hair at some portion of head.	FAC
Complete body was burnt and skin on it also peeled up.	FAC
Face had became red and black.	FAC
Eyes were closed and burnt.	FAC
Nose was burnt and blood was cozing from the nose and mouth.	FAC
Tongue was slightly protruding out.	FAC
Brassier of the left side was totally burnt and right side was partly burnt.	FAC
Ash of burnt cloth was visible on stomach.	FAC
A partly burnt small piece of the border of saree was lying there.	FAC
Some pieces of saree, burnt and sticking each other, were lying on the stomach.	FAC
Skin on palm of both hands was peeled up and was appearing reddish.	FAC
Skin on the complete body was burnt and peeled up.	FAC
On observing the body by turning its upside down, the complete body was burnt from back side.	FAC
On observing the private parts of the deceased through Pancha No.3 it was stated that private parts were burnt and there was no injury and to ascertain the actual cause of death, the dead body was sent to the Civil Surgeon, Murtizapur for post-mortem.	FAC
According to Dr.
Lande, who conducted the postmortem, on opening of trachea black particles were found.	FAC
He recorded that probable cause of death was 100% burn with bum shock with asphysix.	FAC

On the basis of medical evidence the High Court again felt the necessity to ascertain whether the act of pouring kerosene oil was voluntarily by the victim or the act of a third person.	FAC
The High Court felt that the trial court has not even discussed the medical evidence or the inquest report and hastily reached the conclusion that it was a case of suicidal death.	FAC
According to the High Court the entire approach of the trial court was thoroughly unsatisfactory and grossly erroneous.	FAC
After going through the evidence the High Court gave the following findings:-- That the deceased could not control her emotional out-burst even during the presence of her father -in-law while talking on telephone.	FAC
The deceased was a young girl of 20 years.	FAC
A determination to suffer extreme pain in silence could not be a matter of speculation.	FAC
"In third degree injuries, as per Dr. Lande, the victim suffers extreme pain.	FAC
Such injuries will make the person to give out cries and shouts for help."	FAC

The shouting and crying of the deceased was not only obvious but inevitable.	FAC
Undisputedly, none had heard the cries or shouts of the deceased while she was in flames.	FAC
This circumstance alone does not support the probability of suicidal death.	FAC
884 The trial court has wrongly read the contents of letter Ext.
62 and its interpretation is highly illegal.	FAC

Undisputedly Sangita returned from Paratwada after "Shrawani Mass" just a week before the incident, probably by 7th September, 1984.	FAC
She was subjected' to insinuation and accused used to refer her as "awara", "loafer".	FAC
"badmash",	FAC
She wanted to convey this to her father through post card (Ext.62) which seemingly not delivered.	FAC
By this letter she requested her father not to visit Murtizapur.	FAC
This letter never reached post off-ice and the message could not be passed to Madan Lai, PW. 8.	FAC
Before accomplishing her design to convey this message, she could not bring an end to her life.	FAC
Sangita could not simply think of committing suicide while in possession of Ext.62.	FAC

Sangita at the time of incident, as per the post mortem report. was having, a pregnancy of 3-4 months and this is also not in tune with the act of commission of suicide.	FAC

The Sessions Judge omitted to discuss the complete evidence of Dr. Lande and the post mortem report Ext.50.	FAC
As per post mortem report the eye-ball and tongue of the deceased were protruding.	FAC
Dozing of the blood was found from the nose and mouth.	FAC
In case of death due to burning such injuries cannot be sustained.	FAC

Sangita was assaulted before she was set on fire.	FAC
There might be a definite attempt to cause death by strangulation before pouring kerosene oil on her person.	FAC
Relying of the evidence of PW.1, Shivraj, a neighbour who heard a shriek of' woman as a result of strangulation coming from the house of the accused.	FAC
Taking into account tile medical evidence read with the testimony of PW.1, Shivraj, Sangita met with tile homicidal death.	FAC

A ball of cloth half burnt was also found by the side of the body.	FAC
The ball was used for gagging her mouth as a precautionary measure to handicap her from raising cries or shouts.	FAC
PW.5, Bhanudas, had also noticed dragging marks in the court-yard and the deceased after assault was dragged and kept at the spot.	FAC

While in flames Sangita did not make any movement.	FAC
She was completely motionless.	FAC
The latching of doors of the compound was not accepted as an act of the deceased.	FAC
Latching of doors and pouring of kerosene after assault was a farcical venture skilfully and conveniently made to bring colour of suicide to the incident.	FAC

885 The High Court then posed the question as to who is responsible for homicidal death of Sangita.	FAC
It was held that it could not be an act of an individual It was joint venture.	FAC
There is no direct evidence.	FAC
Undisputedly the payment of Rs.20,000/- was not made nor the tither items mentioned in Ext. 73 were given till the date of incident.	FAC

On her second visit, the deceased had disclosed to her father, Madan Lal. that the members of in-laws' family had beaten and ill-treated her for the reason of non-fulfillment of dowry and other articles.	FAC
A reading of the letter indicates that the accused persons had very serious grievance against Sangita and her parents for non fulfillment of dowry demands.	FAC
Recovery of handkerchief at the instance of accused No. 1 in pursuance of a disclosure statement and the seizure thereof vide Ext.69 from a drawer of the table of the office.	FAC
The handkerchief was smelling, kerosene oil.	FAC
It was concealed at a place which was not normally or ordinarily used for keeping the handkerchief.	FAC

This handkerchief was used at the time of the incident.	FAC

None of the accused persons made any attempt to reach the spot even though they noticed the death of Sangita.	FAC
They merely allowed the body to be burnt.	FAC
Accused persons had quoted exact time of death in Ext.82 which means that they were mentally alert and conscious of the happening in the house.	FAC

The refusal to disclose the death of Sangita to the chowkidar of the locality, PW.2, Rahadursingh.	FAC
The meeting with chowkidar Bahadursingh was falsely denied in the statement under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	FAC

Homicidal death occurred by Sangita while she was in their custody.	FAC
The incident with its gravity and extent cannot in any manner go unnoticed.	FAC
As such the accused persons were duty bound to offer plausible explanation.	FAC
Their action was concerted.	FAC
well thought out.	FAC
well planned.	FAC

With the aforesaid findings all the accused persons were found guilty by the High Court and the appellants have come up in appeal before this Court.	FAC

This court on application of appellant Nos. 3 and 4 i.e.
another-in-law and sister-in-law of the deceased, admitted them to be on hail.	FAC

Apart from the inferences noticed by the High Court there are certain other features in the post mortem report Ext. 15 which may also be noticed at this state.	ANALYSIS
It is stated in paragraph 13 of the post mortem report that the whole (if skin of face 886 was burnt and Covered at places with black soot.	ANALYSIS
Eye ball slightly protruding Tongue was protruding from mouth.	ANALYSIS
Blood stained discharge from nose and mouth.	ANALYSIS
In paragraph 17 it is noticed heirs of the scalp, eye lashes, both ears, eyes, whole neck.	ANALYSIS
whole chest.	ANALYSIS
whole abdomen suffer from burns.	ANALYSIS

Buttock and pubic hairs also burnt.	ANALYSIS
Black soot was present over burnt area of face, chest, abdomen.	ANALYSIS
In paragraph 19 it is stated Brain & Meninges congested.	ANALYSIS
In paragraph 20 it is stated Larynx.	ANALYSIS
Trachea and Bronchi-congested, on opening, troches.	ANALYSIS
black particles seen inside human.	ANALYSIS
Right lung left lung-congested.	ANALYSIS
Right ventricle of the heart was full whereas left was empty.	ANALYSIS
In paragraph 21 it is stated liver and gall bladder-congested.	ANALYSIS
pancreas and suprarenals - congested.	ANALYSIS
spleen - congested, kidneys - congested and bladder - empty, i.e. parenchymatous organs show intense venous congestion.	ANALYSIS

Dr. K.S. Narayan Reddy, M.D. D.C.P., M.I.A.F.M., F.I.M.S.A.,F.A.F.Sc., Professor of Forensic Medicine, Osmania Medical College Hyderabad in his well known treatise THE ESSENTIALS OL FFORENSIC MEDICINE AND TOXICOLOGY.	ANALYSIS
Sixth Education at page 255 gives descriptions of internal as well as external symptoms of manual strangulation.	ANALYSIS
At page 255 while dealing with signs of asphyxia.	ANALYSIS
the learned author observes : "The face may be livid, blotchy and swollen, the eyes wide open, bulging and suffused, the pupils dialated, the tongue swollen, dark-cloured and protruded.	ANALYSIS
Petechial hemorrhages are common into the skin of the eyelids, face, forehead, behind the cars and scalp.	ANALYSIS
Bloody froth may escape front the mouth and nostrils and there may he bleeding from the nose and cars.	ANALYSIS
The hands are usually clenched.	ANALYSIS
The genital organs may be congested and there may be discharge of urine, faeces and seminal fluid."	ANALYSIS
While internal injuries described little later included as under "The larynx. trachea and bronchi are congested and contain frothy.	ANALYSIS
often blood stained mucus.	ANALYSIS

                         The lungs are markedly congested and show ecchymoses and larger subaerial hemorrhages.
                         	ANALYSIS
Dark fluid blood exudes on section.	ANALYSIS
Silvery- looking spots under the pleural surface due to rupture of the air cells which disappear on pricking.	ANALYSIS
are seen in more than 505 cases.	ANALYSIS

                         The parenchymatous organs show intense venous congestion and in young persons ecchymoses are usually seen on the heart and kidneys.	ANALYSIS
The brain is contested and shows petechial hemorrhages.	ANALYSIS
The right side of the heart is full of dark fluid blood and the left empty.	ANALYSIS

 Both the cavities are full if the heart stopped during diastole."
Whereas in burn injuries the learned author at pages 237-238 observes."the 887 brain is usually shrunken, firm and yellow to light brown due to cooking.	ANALYSIS
The dura matter is leathery."	ANALYSIS
(dura matter is meninges of the brain).	ANALYSIS
If the death has occoured from suffocation.	ANALYSIS
aspirated blackish coal particles are seen in the nose, mouth and whole of the respiratory track.	ANALYSIS
Their presence is proof that the victim was alive %,.hen tile fire occurred.	ANALYSIS
The pleurae are contested or inflamed.	ANALYSIS
The lungs are usually congested.	ANALYSIS
may be strunken and rarely anemic......	ANALYSIS
Visceral congestion is marked in many cases......	ANALYSIS
The heart is usually filled with clotted blood.	ANALYSIS

'The adarme;s (glands above kidneys) may he enlarged and congested.	ANALYSIS

Some of these symptoms or internal and external injuries are common in case of strangulation and burn like face is swollen and distorted, the tongue protruded.	ANALYSIS
the lungs are usually congested visceral congestions is marked in many cases.	ANALYSIS

What is to he noticed in the present case is that there are hardly "any cries" as per the defence also by the deceased.	ANALYSIS

This is not possible even in case of suicide.	ANALYSIS
Even if the burns ,ire inflicted with suicidal intent tile victim is bound to cry out of pain.	ANALYSIS
Admittedly there was no cries and, therefore, it was not a Case of suicidal burn but the deceased was put in a condition where she could not cry and yet get burnt by third party.	ANALYSIS

As is clear from the aforesaid commentary of Dr. K.S.
Narayan Reddy that if it was a case of merely burns the blood of the heart would have got clotted.	ANALYSIS
Even the postmortem report does not say that asphvsix was due to burn.	ANALYSIS
Coupled with all the internal injuries which occur in the case of strangulation.	ANALYSIS
are present in this case.	ANALYSIS

As pointed out by the High Court there is no direct evidence to connect the appellants with the offence of murder and the prosecution entirely rests its case only on circumstantial evidence.	ANALYSIS
There is a series of decisions of this Court propounding the cardinal principles to be followed in cases in which the evidence is of circumstantial nature.	ANALYSIS
It is not necessary to repapitulate all those decisions except stating the essential ingredients as noticed by Pandian, J.
in the case reported as The State of Uttar Pradesh v. Dr.
Ravindra Prakesh J. in the case 2 SC 114 at 121, to prove quilt of an accused person by circumstantial evidence.	PRE_RELIED
They are:- (1) The circumstance from which tile conclusion is drawn should be fully proved; (2) the circumstances should he conclusive in nature; 888 (3)all the facts so established should he consistent only with the hypothesis of guilt and inconsistent with innocence: (4)the circumstances should. to a moral certainty, exclude the possibility of guilt of any person other than the accused."	PRE_RELIED

Now let us examine the impelling circunistances attending the case and examine whether tile cumulative effect of those circumstances negatives tile innocence of tile appellants and serves a definite pointer towards their guilt and unerringly leads to the conclusion that with all human probability the offence was committed by the appellants and none else.	ANALYSIS

There is no doubt that when the incident occurred there was no outsider its the house.	ANALYSIS
The circumstances which ire establislied its having closely linked up with one another may be noticed 1) The motive for the occurrence.
                         2) The place where the tragic incident occurred was in possession and occupation of the appellants.	ANALYSIS

                         3) The occurrence had happened in the wee hours when body else would have had ingress at the place where the incident allegedly occurred.	ANALYSIS

                         4) The appellants admit their presence.	ANALYSIS

                         The positive features, which occurred, had it been it pure case of burning, there would he evidence of vomiting.	ANALYSIS

 6) The positive opinion of the doctor that the death was due to asphysix as well apart from 100% burns.	ANALYSIS

 7)          The deceased was carrying fetus of 3-4 months 8)	ANALYSIS
The extensive use of kerosene as seen from the burn shows that the deceased was practically 889 drenched as sort of a bath with kerosene.	ANALYSIS
9) Total absence of any shout or cries except one which was heard by way o f strangulation by PW.	ANALYSIS
1.
 10	ANALYSIS
) Blood in heart was not found clotted.	ANALYSIS

 Right ventricle heart was full of blood but left ventricle wits empty.
 11) Besides total burning of neck was to destroy evidence of attempted strangulation.
 12) In burn brain is usually shrunken and firm whereas in strangulation it is congested.	ANALYSIS

 As noticed by Pandian, J. in the aforesaid decision, opinion of Taylor in Medical Jurisprudence is quoted below.	ANALYSIS
It reads thus: "Not uncommonly the victim who inhales smoke also vomits and inhales some vomit, presumably due to bouts of coughing, and plugs of regur- gitated stomach contents mixed with soot may be found in the smaller bronchi, in the depths of the lungs."
 	ANALYSIS
By the time a person could take a bath of kerosene she is likely to get fainted and would not be in a position thereafter to burn herself.	ANALYSIS
A total burning, of the face and the neck shows that even at portions where she was not wearing any clothes were not burnt.	ANALYSIS
It could only be possible if she had poured kerosene on her head and face also.	ANALYSIS

 It is not understood as to how the unposted post card found near the dead body was not burnt when the whole body had got burnt.	ANALYSIS
It in fact indicates that the planting of the post card was to show that it was a case of suicidal death.	RATIO

 In passes all human probabilities that the appellants have satisfied themselves by watching through the window the burning of daughter-in-law without any due and cry or without and serious attempt to save her.	RATIO

 We are thus satisfied that it was a case of murder and not suicidal death.	RATIO
So far as the accomplicity of appellants 1 and 2 are concerned, there is no doubt.	RATIO
But 890 it is not necessary if appellant Nos. 3-4 i.e. mother-in-law and sister-in-law of the deceased have also participated in the murder of the deceased.	RATIO

 For the aforesaid reasons we dismiss the appeal on behalf of appellant. Nos. 1 and 2 but give benefit of doubt to appellant Nos. 3 and 4 and accept the appeal on their behalf.	RPC
They are accordingly acquitted.	RPC
The convictions and sentences of appellant Nos. 1 and 2 are upheld.	RPC

 U. R.	RPC
                                Appeal dismissed.	RPC
