                     TITLE SHEET FOR JUDGEMENTS IN SUIT

 IN THE COURT OF THE 1ST ADDL.CIVIL JUDGE(SR.DN.) &
                                 CJM AT MYSORE	PREAMBLE
: PRESENT :

                    Sri. M.K. ASHOK, B.A., LL.B.,

            I ADDITIONAL	PREAMBLE
SENIOR	PREAMBLE
CIVIL JUDGE, MYSURU	PREAMBLE
.

             	PREAMBLE
DATED THIS THE 25th DAY OF JANUARY 2017	PREAMBLE
O.S. NO.6422011

BETWEEN
                 1. Smt. Raama Devi,	PREAMBLE
aged about 52	PREAMBLE

                      years, W/o Chikkanna,	PREAMBLE


                 2. Smt. Padmini, aged 26 years, W/o	PREAMBLE

                      Ningaiah,

                     Plaintiffs 1 and 2 are residing
                     separately in two different
                     portions of house No.11,
                     Munishwara Nagara, J.P. Nagara
                     Extension,	PREAMBLE
Mysore8	PREAMBLE
.

                                                                        : PLAINTIFFS

       (Represented by Sri. K.R. Nagaraja, Advocate)
                                          	PREAMBLE
V/S

               1. Smt. C. Nagarathna,	PREAMBLE
aged 28 years,
                   W/o Madaiah @ Mahadeva.

               2. Sri. Madaiah	PREAMBLE
@ Mahadeva	PREAMBLE
, aged 38
                   years, S/o Mayigaiah,

Defendants 1 and 2 are residing at
D. No.74, 12th Cross, 5th Main,
Chinnagiri Koppal, Jayanagara,
Mysore.	PREAMBLE
: DEFENDANTS

(Represented by Sri. Y.G., Advocate)

Date of Institution of the suit                      09032007
                                      Suit for Permanent Injunction
Nature of the suit (suit on
pronote, suit for declaration and            09092011
possession, suit for injunction,
etc.,)                                       25012017

Date of the commencement of           Years  Months    Days
recording of the evidence

Date on which Judgement was
pronounced

Total Duration

                                      09     10        16

                               O.S. NO.1522009

BETWEEN
                 Smt. Raama Devi, aged about 53
                 years, W/o Chikkanna, No.11,
                 Muniswamy Nagara,	PREAMBLE
J.P. Nagara	PREAMBLE

                 Extension, Mysore 8.
                                                                        	PREAMBLE
: PLAINTIFF

       	PREAMBLE
(Represented by Sri. K.R. Nagaraja, Advocate)
                                          V/S

1. Smt. C. Nagarathna, aged 28 years,
   W/o Madaiah @ Mahadeva,

2. Sri. Madaiah @ Mahadeva, aged 38
   years, S/o Mayigaiah,

Defendants 1 and 2 are R/at D.
No.74, 12th Cross, 5th Main,
Chinnagiri Koppal, Jayanagara,
Mysore.

3. Sri Sathyanarayana Padukote,
   aged about 39 years, S/o Subbarao,
   ( A Police constable working in
   Vijayanagara Police Station,
   Mysore) R/	PREAMBLE
at D.No. 615, 1st Stage,	PREAMBLE

   Industrial Suburb, Vishveshwara	PREAMBLE

   Nagara, Mysore	PREAMBLE
.

4. The Government of Karnataka, By

Mysore  District                      Deputy

Commissioner, D.C. Office, Mysore.	PREAMBLE


                                                              : DEFENDANTS

(Defendants 3 & 4 are placed exparte and Defendant Nos.1
& 2 are represented by Sri. Y.G., Advocate)	PREAMBLE
Date of Institution of the suit                     20022009
                                          Suit for declaration, for
Nature of the suit (suit on           Mandatory Injunction and for
pronote, suit for declaration and          Permanent Injunction
possession, suit for injunction,
etc.,)                                              09092011

Date of the commencement of                         25012017
recording of the evidence

Date on which Judgement was
pronounced

                     Years
Total Duration         08   Months  Days	PREAMBLE

                                11    05	PREAMBLE
(M.K. ASHOK)	PREAMBLE

                            I ADDITIONAL SENIOR CIVIL JUDGE,	PREAMBLE


                                                   MYSURU.	PREAMBLE
:COMMON JUDGMENT	NONE
: The suit in OS. No. 6422011 has been filed by the Raamadevi and her daughter Smt. Padmini for Permanent Injunction.	FAC
OS No.1522009 has been filed by Smt. Raamadevi for declaration, Mandatory Injunction and for Permanent Injunction.	FAC
OS. No. 1522009 has been clubbed with OS.
No.6422011, both these suits are filed by Smt. Raamadevi, W/o Chikkanna.	FAC
In OS. No. 6422011, the Plaintiff No.2 arrayed as party on the pleading that she has occupied the portion of the Suit Schedule Property.	FAC
The facts as pleaded in both the plaints are one and the same.	FAC
The Plaintiff No.2 in OS. No.6422011 only become formal party, therefore the Plaintiff No.1 in OS. 6422011 and Plaintiff in OS. No.152 2009 Smt. Raamadevi called as Plaintiff in both the suits for the purpose of convenience by ignoring Plaintiff No.2 in OS.
No.6422011.
 2.	FAC
The case of the Plaintiff in both the cases are as under: The Suit Schedule Properties originally belongs to the father of the Plaintiffs Sri. Maraiah.	FAC
The Plaintiff Smt.
Raamadevi is the only daughter of Maraiah.	FAC
The wife of Maraiah i.e., Plaintiff's mother died 32 years ago, after that, Maraiah has not married.	FAC
Maraiah working as a Gangman in the then Mysuru City Municipality and he having a sister by name Smt. Devamma.	FAC
The Plaintiff's mother Chowdamma was the foster daughter of Smt. Devamma.	FAC
Said Devamma owned a revenue site on which she had constructed a country tiled house at D.No.74, 12th Cross, 5th Main, Chinnagiri Koppal, Jayanagara, Mysuru.	FAC
Maraiah also started living in that house along with his wife and sister Smt. Devamma till his death.	FAC

Maraiah has demolished the old house and constructed a R.C.C. house in the said revenue site.	FAC
The Defendants 1 and 2 are also started to live in the said revenue house.	FAC
The Plaintiff having 4 daughters, the Defendant No.1 is the daughter of the Plaintiff No.1 and Defendant No.2 is the husband of the Defendant No.1.	FAC
The Defendant No.1 and her husband are also lived in the Suit Schedule Properties.	FAC
All the children of the Plaintiff got married and except the Defendant No.1, they set up separate family houses.	FAC
The Defendant No.1 and her husband started to live in the revenue site house.	FAC
The said Maraiah has chided the Defendant Nos.1 and 2 to set up separate home, but the Defendants 1 and 2 continued to live in the revenue site house.	FAC
The Defendants 1 and 2 always tried to create ugly scenes in the revenue site house and Plaintiff has contemplated to move out of the revenue site house and establish her own separate residential house, but she has not leave her father Maraiah.	FAC
The deceased Maraiah is the owner of the item No.1 of the property, which is situated at D. No.11, Muniswamy Nagara, J.P. Nagara Extension, Mysore, this property has a RCC roof protection and another an asbestos roof portion.	FAC
Maraiah also owning another house which is more fully described in Item No.2 of the plaint.	FAC
The Defendant No.3 in OS. No.1522009 was inducted as a tenant in plaint schedule Item No.2 property on a monthly rent of Rs.750/.	FAC
The Plaintiff has occupied the RCC roof portion of the Item No.1 of the property about 5 to 6 years back.	FAC
The Plaintiff from morning to evening taken care of Maraiah.	FAC
The Plaintiff daughter one Smt. C. Padmini, who is the Plaintiff No.2 in OS. No.6422011 residing in the asbestos sheet roof portion of the Item No.1 of the property.	FAC
The Plaintiff and her daughter C. Padmini have resided in the said property as per the wish of Maraiah.	FAC
The Plaintiff and her daughter C.
Padmini, are residing in the Item No.1 of the property peacefully.	FAC
Maraiah was died on 04122006, the Defendant Nos.1 and 2 have started to come to plaint schedule Item No.1 of the property with unruly elements and started to threaten the Plaintiff and Smt. C. Padmini i.e., the Plaintiff No.2 in OS.
No.6422011, therefore the Plaintiffs have constrained to file a suit in OS. No.6422011 against the Defendants for Permanent Injunction.	FAC

 3. The Plaintiff is the only daughter to Maraiah and she become the absolute owner of the Suit Schedule Properties.	FAC

The Defendant No.1 and 2 have creates a false documents and tried to contend that they are becomes the owners of plaint schedule 1 and 2 of the properties and denying the right, title and interest over the Suit Schedule Properties, therefore Plaintiffs have constrained to file a suit for declaration.	FAC
The Plaintiffs in OS. No.6422011 have prayed to restrain the Defendants and their agents from interfering with the Plaintiffs' peaceful possession and enjoyment of the plaint schedule property.	FAC
The Plaintiff in OS. No.1522009 has prayed to declare that she become the absolute owner of the plaint schedule Item No.1 and 2 of the properties, after the death of her father Maraiah and directing the Defendant No.3 to pay the monthly rent in respect of plaint schedule Item No.2 property to the Plaintiff and consequently restraining the Defendants 1 and 2 from interfering with the Plaintiffs' peaceful possession and enjoyment of plaint schedule item Nos.1 and 2 properties and etc.
 4.	FAC
The Defendants 1 and 2 in both the cases have appeared through their counsels and filed their Written Statements and denied the plaint averments.	FAC
They have admits the relationship as claimed by the Plaintiffs.	FAC
They have stated that Suit Schedule Properties belongs to one Maraiah and she is the foster father of Defendant No.2 and he has adopted him when the Defendant No.2 was a child.	FAC
The Defendant No.2 is the son of Maraiah's sisterinlaw i.e., the son of Maraiah's wife's sister.	FAC
The Plaintiff is the only daughter to Maraiah and he has performed the marriage of the Plaintiff and she has settled her life.	FAC
The Defendant No.2 has lookafter Maraiah till the end of his life.	FAC
The Defendant No.2 was lived with Maraiah right from the time of demise of his wife and till his death.	FAC
Maraiah has settled the Item No.1 of the property in favour of the Defendant No.2 and Item No.2 of the property in favour of Defendant No.1 by means of registered Will dated:22 031995.	FAC
The said Maraiah died on 04122006, the Defendant Nos.1 and 2 become the absolute owners of the Suit Schedule Properties by virtue of the Will.	FAC
The katha of the Suit Schedule Properties came to their respective names and Defendants have paying taxes.	FAC
After the death of Maraiah, the Defendant No.2 rented out the into one M.J. Ramesh, but said M.J. Ramesh forcibly removed from the premises after the Plaintiffs filed a suit in OS. No.2522007 and obtained an exparte order of injunction.	FAC
The Plaintiffs have no manner of right, title and interest over the Suit Schedule Properties.	FAC
The Defendants have stated that, Plaintiffs have not lookafter Maraiah at any point of time and Maraiah not having faith on her, therefore he has fostered the Defendant No.1.	FAC
The Defendants have stated that, the Defendant No.1 has look after Maraiah till his death.	FAC
Out of the love and affection, Maraiah has executed a Will dated:22031995.	FAC
The Defendants have stated that the Plaintiffs have forcibly evicted the tenant M. J. Ramesh, by obtaining the exparte temporary injunction.	FAC
The Defendants have stated that, Suit Schedule Properties are the selfacquired properties of Maraiah, he has executed a Will and by virtue of the said Will, the Defendants become the absolute owners of the Suit Schedule Properties.	FAC

The Defendants have prayed to dismiss the suit.	FAC

 5. On the basis of the pleadings of the parties, following issues have been framed in OS. No.6422011.
 ISSUES 1) Whether Plaintiffs prove that, they are in lawful possession of the Suit Schedule Property?
 2) Whether Plaintiffs prove the interference by Defendants?	ISSUE

 3) Whether Plaintiffs are entitled for relief as prayed for?	ISSUE

 4) What order or decree?	ISSUE

 Following issues have been framed in OS. No.1522009 1.	ISSUE
Whether Plaintiff proves that after the death of her father on 04.12.2006 she became absolute owner of the Suit Schedule Properties?	ISSUE
2. Whether Plaintiff proves that she is in lawful possession and enjoyment of the Suit Schedule Property?	ISSUE
3. Whether Defendant No.1 and 2 proves that, Maraiah who was the owner of Suit Schedule Properties settled the item No.1 of the Suit Schedule Property upon 2nd Defendant and item No.2 of the Suit Schedule Property upon 1st Defendant by means of registered Will dated:22031995?	ISSUE
4. Whether Defendant No.1 and 2 proves that, after the death of Maraiah they became absolute owners of the Suit Schedule Properties by virtue of the said Will?	ISSUE
5. Whether Plaintiff is entitled for the relief of declaration and injunction?	ISSUE

 6. Whether Plaintiff is entitled for the relief as sought for?	ISSUE

 7. What order or decree?	ISSUE
6. In order to prove her case, the Plaintiff examined as PW.1 in OS. No.1522009 and she has produced and got marked the documents Ex.P.1 to P.9.	FAC
On behalf of the Defendants, the Defendant No.1 examined as DW.1 in OS.
No.1522009 and she has produced and got marked the documents Ex.D.1 to D.8.	FAC
The Defendant No.2 examined as DW.2 and he has produced and got marked the documents Ex.D.9 to D.16.
 7	FAC
. I have heard the arguments and perused the entire records of the case.	NONE

 8. My findings on the above Issues are as under: Issue No.1 & 2 in OS. No. 6422011 : In the Affirmative Issue No.3   in OS. No. 6422011  :  In the Affirmative Issue No.1 & 2 in OS. No.1522009 : In the Affirmative Issue No.3 & 4 in OS. No.1522009 : In the Negative Issue No.5 & 6 in OS. No.1522009 : In the Affirmative Issue No.7  : As per final order for the following: R E A S O N S 9. Issue Nos. 3 & 4 in OS. No.1522009: Since these two Issues are interconnected with each other, therefore taken together for consideration.	ANALYSIS
It is not in dispute that Suit Schedule Properties are belongs to Maraiah.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff Smt. Raamadevi is the only daughter of Maraiah.	ANALYSIS
The Defendant No.1 is the daughter of Plaintiff No.1 and Defendant No.2 is the husband of Defendant No.1.	ANALYSIS
The father of the Plaintiff Maraiah died on 04122006.	ANALYSIS
The Suit Schedule Properties are the selfacquired properties of Maraiah.	ANALYSIS
According to the Plaintiffs, Maraiah died intestate, leaving behind the Plaintiff Raamadevi as a sole surviving legal heir.	ANALYSIS
According to the Defendants 1 and 2, Maraiah has executed the registered Will dated:22031995 and bequeathed the Suit Schedule Properties in favour of the Defendant Nos.1 and 2.
 10.	ANALYSIS
The Defendants 1 and 2 have denied the contention of the Plaintiff that Maraiah has died intestate.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff Raamadevi is the only daughter of Maraiah.	ANALYSIS
If Maraiah was died intestate, the Plaintiff Raamadevi has succeeded the Suit Schedule Properties being the sole surviving class I heir of Maraiah.	ANALYSIS
The answering of Issue No.1 is depending on the answering of Issue Nos.3 and 4, therefore Issue Nos.3 and 4 taken for consideration at first.	ANALYSIS
In these two issues, proof of execution of the registered Will dated:22031995 is involved, therefore it is necessary to examine the evidence led by the parties in respect of the Will set up by the Defendants 1 and 2.
 11.	ANALYSIS
The Defendant No.1 examined as DW.1 and produced the Will as Ex.D.3.	ANALYSIS
The Defendant No.2 has also examined as DW.2.	ANALYSIS
DW.1 and DW.2 have stated that Maraiah has fostered the second Defendant and he has adopted the second Defendant when he was a child.	ANALYSIS
They have stated that, mother of DW.2 and wife of Maraiah are the sisters.	ANALYSIS
Maraiah has performed the marriage of her only daughter i.e., Plaintiff No.1 and settled her life and DW.2 has lookafter Maraiah, till his death.	ANALYSIS
The said Maraiah has settled the Item Nos.1 and 2 of the properties in their favour by means of registered Will dated:22031995.	ANALYSIS
They have stated that, said Maraiah died on 04122006 and by virtue of the Will, they became the absolute owners.	ANALYSIS
The katha of the Suit Schedule Properties continued in their names by virtue of the Will and they have paid the tax and they have enjoyed the Suit Schedule Property as absolute owners.	ANALYSIS

 12. Ex.D.3 Will is the registered document, but in the crossexamination as well as in the plaint, the Plaintiffs have denied the execution of the Will by Maraiah.	ANALYSIS
It is her contention that, Will has been concocted by the Plaintiffs.	ANALYSIS
In view of the specific denial, Plaintiff has to prove the Will.	ANALYSIS
In order to prove the Will, the propounder of the Will has to examine at least one attesting witness to the Will.	ANALYSIS
According to the Defendants, attesting witnesses to the Will were died, therefore they are unable to examine the attesting witness.	ANALYSIS

 13. As per section 69 of the Indian Evidence Act, if no such attesting witnesses were found, the propounder of the Will has to call upon any of the witnesses who know the hand writing and signature of the person who has attested the Will.	ANALYSIS
Here in this case, DW.1 and DW.2 have not chosen to call any witnesses, who know the signature and handwriting of the attesting witnesses to prove the Will.	ANALYSIS
Even Defendants have not examined the scribe of the Will.	ANALYSIS

 14. In the crossexamination, DW.1 has stated that she has found the Will in her grand father's house and his grand father has given the said Will and she has stated that, she do not know where the stamp paper has been purchased and where the Will has been written and she has stated that, she do not know the execution of the Will itself.	ANALYSIS
In the cross examination, DW.2 has stated that, when he has get the Will, the attesting witnesses to the Will were alive and now they were died.	ANALYSIS
He has stated that, he do not know when the witnesses to the Will were died and his brother Jogaiah has informed that attesting witnesses to the Will were died and he do not having personal knowledge of the death of attesting witnesses.
 15.	ANALYSIS
As per the evidence of DW.2, he does not know whether attesting witnesses were died or not.	ANALYSIS
He has stated that his brother has informed him that they were died.	ANALYSIS
DW.1 and DW.2 have not produced any evidence to show that attesting witnesses to the Will were died.	ANALYSIS
The Defendants have not made any effort to prove that attesting witnesses to the Will were died and they have not made any effort to secure the witnesses, who know the signature and handwriting of the attesting witnesses.	ANALYSIS
The learned counsel for the Defendants has argued that, all the witnesses to the Will were died, therefore the Defendants are unable examine the attesting witnesses to the Will.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The katha of the schedule property has been transferred in the name of the Defendants by virtue of the Will and Will has been acted upon, therefore the nonexamination of the attesting witnesses is not fatal to the case of the Defendants.	ANALYSIS

 16. As already discussed, the Defendants have not made any effort to prove that, the attesting witnesses to the Will were died and they were not made an attempt to examine the person who know the handwriting and signature of the attesting witnesses. DW.1	ANALYSIS
and DW.2	ANALYSIS
have not stated in their examination in chief that attesting witnesses to the Will were died.	ANALYSIS
They have not examined the scribe of the Will, therefore the Defendants have not fulfill the legal requirement under Section 63 (3) of the Indian Succession Act, and 68 and 69 of the Indian Evidence Act, in proving the Will, therefore it cannot be said that, Plaintiffs have proved the execution of the Will.	ANALYSIS

 17. Apart from fulfill the legal requirements, it is necessary to consider the probability of execution of the Will by the deceased Maraiah.	ANALYSIS
It is the specific contention of the Plaintiff that Maraiah has not at all executed the Will and Defendants have taken some other person to the Sub Registrar Office and registered the Will in the name of Maraiah.	ANALYSIS
The signature as found on the Will is not the signature of Maraiah.	ANALYSIS
PW.1 has stated that, Maraiah seriously fell ill from several years.	ANALYSIS
In the crossexamination of DW.1 and DW.2 also a suggestion was put to them that, Maraiah seriously ill from 12 to 15 years and he was paralyzed and he was also not mentally sound.	ANALYSIS
When the Plaintiff has taken a contention that, Will in question is forged one and the testator was not in sound disposing state of mind at the time of execution of the Will, the propounder of the Will has to establish the sound disposing state of mind of the testator and has to remove the suspicious circumstances behind the execution of the Will, apart from examining the attesting witnesses to the Will.	ANALYSIS

 18. Here in this case, the Defendants have not produced any evidence to show that, the testator of the Will was in sound disposing state of mind and he was able to understand his acts and deeds at the time of execution of the Will.	ANALYSIS
The signature of Maraiah on the Will has been specifically denied by the Plaintiff.	ANALYSIS
The Defendants have not chosen to prove that the signature as found on the Will Ex.D.3 is signature of Maraiah.	ANALYSIS
Considering the cross examination of DW.1 and DW.2 and facts and circumstances of the case, it is made clear that there are several suspicious circumstances are existed around the execution of the Will and it is possible to infer that the deceased Maraiah has suffered from ill health from several years.	ANALYSIS

 19. In the crossexamination, DW.2 has admits that his marriage was registered one and Ex.P.10 is the registration certificate.	ANALYSIS
He has admits that his name was shown as Maraiah and 1st Defendant's father name was shown as Chikkalingaiah and his village and his residence was shown as Ramanahalli, instead of Damanahalli and he has furnished the false address to the SubRegistrar, while registering the marriage and obtained the marriage certificate.	ANALYSIS
The learned counsel has contending that, the Defendant Nos.1 and 2 having the habit of creating the document and they are capable of creating the false document, therefore the alleged Will also might have created by the Defendant Nos.1 and 2 by taking someone to the sub registrar office.	ANALYSIS
Though the above fact is not relevant to this suit, but it established the conduct of the Defendants.	ANALYSIS

 20. DW.2 in the crossexamination has stated that, the deceased Maraiah was in J.S.S. Hospital, and he has given the key of the trunk and after the death of Maraiah, he found the Will in the said trunk.	ANALYSIS
He has stated that, after one month of his death, he has get the Will and within two months, he has got transferred the katha.	ANALYSIS
DW.1 has stated that, her grand father has given the Will to her.	ANALYSIS
There is a contradiction between DW.1 and DW.2 in this regard.	ANALYSIS
Considering the evidence of DW1 and DW.2, I am of the opinion that, the Will is surrounded by suspicious circumstances and Defendants have failed to establish the Will by removing the suspicious circumstances.	ANALYSIS
The Defendants 1 and 2 have failed to establish the valid execution of the Will by the deceased Maraiah.	ANALYSIS
When the Defendants have failed to establish the Will, then they have also failed to establish that they become the absolute owners of the Suit Schedule Property by virtue of the Will.	ANALYSIS
Just because, the katha transferred in the name of the Defendants, it is not a ground to hold that Defendants are the absolute owners of the Suit Schedule Property.	ANALYSIS

Accordingly, I have answered Issue Nos.3 and 4 in the negative.	ANALYSIS

 21. Issue No.1 and 2 in OS. No. 1522009 and Issue Nos.1 and 2 in OS. No.6422011	RATIO
: It is the case of the Plaintiff Raamadevi that she being the only daughter of Maraiah become the sole surviving legal heir of Maraiah and after his death, she become the absolute owner of the Suit Schedule Property.	RATIO
It is not in dispute that the Suit Schedule Properties are the properties of Maraiah and Plaintiff Smt. Raamadevi is the only daughter of Maraiah.	RATIO
PW.1 has stated that, she is the only daughter of Maraiah.	RATIO
While answering Issue Nos.3 and 4 it was held that, the Defendants have failed to establish the valid execution of the Will said to had been executed by the deceased Maraiah on 22031995, therefore the deceased Maraiah died intestate and Plaintiff Raamadevi being the daughter of Maraiah has succeeded the Suit Schedule Property.	RATIO

 22. The Defendants have denied the lawful possession of the Plaintiff over the Suit Schedule Property.	ANALYSIS
It is necessary to examine whether the Plaintiff Smt. Raamadevi is in possession of the Suit Schedule Property.	ANALYSIS
23. PW.1 in her evidence has stated that, though she has constrained to live separately from Maraiah, due to the unpleasant situation created by the Defendants 1 and 2, but she used to serve Maraiah from morning to evening by staying with him.	ANALYSIS
PW.1 has stated that, she has residing in the Item No.1 of the property in R.C.C. roof portion and Plaintiff No.2 in OS. No.6422011 has occupied the asbestos sheet roof portion of the Item No.1 of the property.	ANALYSIS
The Defendant No.3 has inducted as a tenant in the Item No.2 of the property on a monthly rent of Rs.750/.	ANALYSIS
The Defendant No.2 has claimed that he is the adopted son of deceased Maraiah, but he has failed to prove the adoption and he has also failed to prove the Will in his favour.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff being the only daughter of Maraiah has succeeded the Suit Schedule Property.	ANALYSIS
The father of the Plaintiff Maraiah was in possession of the Suit Schedule Property till his death.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff has acquired the Suit Schedule Property by virtue of succession, therefore it is deemed that Plaintiff is in lawful possession of the Suit Schedule Property.	ANALYSIS
24. DW.1 has produced the demand register extract as Ex.D.5, tax paid receipts as Ex.D.6 to 8 to prove her possession, but the katha was transferred in the name of Defendants by virtue of the Will.	ANALYSIS
The Defendants have failed to establish the Will, therefore just because the Defendants 1 and 2 have managed to transfer the katha by virtue of the Will, it cannot be said that Defendants are in possession of the Suit Schedule Property.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff is the absolute owner of the property and Defendants have failed to establish the independent possession over the Suit Schedule Property, therefore it is necessary to infer that Plaintiff Raamadevi being the owner is in lawful possession of the Suit Schedule Property.	ANALYSIS
DW.2 has produced certified copy of the registered sale deed as Ex.D.11.	ANALYSIS
That sale deed is executed during the pendency of this suit, therefore said sale deed not having any consequence in this suit.	ANALYSIS
The person purchased the property under the said sale deed does not derive any right title over the lawful possession of the property and he has bound by the decree.	ANALYSIS
The Defendant No.2 in OS. No.1522009 has filed a suit against the Plaintiff in OS. No. 7292016.	ANALYSIS
The certified copy of the plaint in OS. No.7292016 is marked as Ex.D.14, which discloses that Defendant No.2 has filed a suit for possession of the Item No.1 of the property.	ANALYSIS
This fact also discloses that the Plaintiff is in possession of the Item No.1 of the Suit Schedule Property.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff has established her title over the Suit Schedule Property as well as possession.	ANALYSIS

 25. Insofar as Item No.2 of the property is concerned, according to the Plaintiff, 3rd Defendant Sri. Sathyanarayana Padukote was in possession of the Suit Schedule Property as a tenant.	ANALYSIS
In the crossexamination DW.1 has admits this fact, but she has stated that they have sold that property.	ANALYSIS

The sale deed is produced as Ex.D.11.	RATIO
Item No.2 of the property has been occupied by the tenant, he is deemed to be tenant under the deceased Maraiah.	RATIO
The Plaintiff has acquired the property after his death, therefore she deemed to be owner in possession of the property.	RATIO
The Plaintiff has sought for Mandatory Injunction against the previous tenant Defendant No.3 to pay the monthly rent.	RATIO
But Defendant No.3 has vacated the premises during the pendency of this suit.	RATIO

The Defendant Nos.1 and 2 have sold the property on the guise of the katha transferred in their names, by virtue of the Will.	RATIO
The Defendants have failed to establish the Will.	RATIO
The person who has purchased the property during the pendency of this suit not acquired any title over the property and his sale deed become empty sale deed, he is bound to deliver the possession of the property to the Plaintiff.	RATIO
The acquisition of the possession by the said purchaser is during the pendency of this suit, though the Plaintiff has not seeking the relief of possession, but acquiring the possession by the purchaser is during the pendency of this suit, therefore it is just and proper to mould the relief of Mandatory Injunction and to grant the relief of possession of the Item No.2 of the property.	RATIO
Though the purchaser is not a party to the suit, but he being the purchaser during the pendency of this suit, bound by the decree.	RATIO
It is pertinent to note that, after case is posted for judgment, Plaintiff has filed an application under Order 6 Rule 17 of CPC, for amendment of the plaint for seeking the relief of possession on the plea that the Defendant No.3 has vacated the Item No.2 of the property and Defendant No.1 and 2 have forcibly taken possession of the item No.2 of the property and sold to Sri. Sharathkumar, as per registered sale deed dated:26062014.	RATIO
That application has been dismissed by considering the stage in which it has been filed and also considering the fact that the fact pleaded by way of amendment is subsequent event and even without prayer, the court can mould the relief suitably.	RATIO
The Plaintiff is entitled for possession of the Item No.2 of the property, even though there is no specific prayer and subsequent purchaser is not a party to the suit.	RATIO
The purchaser has got the possession from the Defendant Nos.1 and 2 during the pendency of this suit.	RATIO
The Plaintiff is entitled to get possession of the Suit Schedule Property by executing decree against the Defendants 1 and 2 and their purchaser Sri.
Sharathkumar.	ANALYSIS
Since the purchaser bound by the decree passed against the Defendants 1 and 2.
 26.	ANALYSIS
Insofar as interference is concerned, on the basis of the conduct of the Defendants, it possible to infer the interference.	ANALYSIS
Accordingly, I have answered Issue No.1 and 2 in OS. No. 1522009 and Issue Nos.1 and 2 in OS. No.642 2011 in the affirmative.	ANALYSIS

 27. Issue Nos.5 and 6 in OS. No. 1522009 and Issue No.3 in OS. No.6422011:	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff in both the cases has able to establish that she has succeeded the Suit Schedule Property after the death of her father Maraiaha and she is in lawful possession of the Suit Schedule Property, therefore Plaintiff is entitled for the relief of declaration and Permanent Injunction as well as possession of the Item No.2 of the property.	ANALYSIS
Accordingly, I have answered these issues in the affirmative.	NONE

 28. Issue No. 7 in OS. No.1522009 and Issue No.4 in OS. No.6422011:	NONE
For the reasons discussed above, the Plaintiffs in both the cases are entitled for the relief as prayed for and I have proceed to pass the following: ORDER	RPC
The suit of the Plaintiff in both the cases is hereby decreed with costs.	RPC

 It is hereby declared that the Plaintiff is the absolute owner of the Suit Schedule Properties.	RPC

 The Defendants, their men and agents are hereby restrained from interfering with the Plaintiffs' peaceful possession and enjoyment of the Suit Schedule Properties.	RPC
The Plaintiff is entitled for possession of the Item No.2 of the property from the purchaser.	RPC
The Defendant Nos.1 and 2 and their purchaser are hereby directed to hand over the vacant possession of the Suit Schedule Property.	RPC
Draw decree accordingly.	RPC

 (Dictated to the Stenographer, transcribed by her, corrected by me and pronounced in the open court on 25th January 2017)	NONE
(M.K. ASHOK)	NONE
I ADDITIONAL SENIOR CIVIL JUDGE, MYSURU.	NONE
ANNEXURE LIST OF WITNESS EXAMINED ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF PW.1         Smt. Raamadevi LIST OF DOCUMENTS MARKED ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF Ex.P.1       Death Certificate Ex.P.2       Tax paid receipt Ex.P.3       Self assessment Declaration statement Ex.P.4       Katha extract Ex.P.5       Certificate Ex.P.6       Demand register Ex.P.7       Copy of the legal notice Ex.P.8       COP Ex.P.9       Postal cover LIST OF WITNESS EXAMINED ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDENTS DW.1         Smt. Nagarathna DW.2         Sri. Madaiah @ Mahadeva LIST OF DOCUMENTS MARKED ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDENTS Ex.	NONE
D.1       Identity Card Ex.D.2       Ration card Ex.D.3       Original Will dated:22031995 Ex.D.4       Death certificate Ex.D.5       Demand register Ex.D.6 to 8  	NONE
Tax paid receipts Ex.D.9       Copy of legal notice Ex.D.10      Note written by Padmini Ex.D.11      Certified copy of the sale deed dated:2606 2014 Ex.	NONE
D.12      Certified copy of the sale deed dated:2106 2008 Ex.D.13  Certified Copy of Order sheet in OS. No. 729 2016 Ex.D.14  Certified Copy of plaint in OS. No.7292016 Ex.D.15  Certified copy of Letter of rights Ex.D.16  	NONE
Certified copy of Patta book issued by Panchayath (M.K. ASHOK) I ADDITIONAL SENIOR CIVIL JUDGE, MYSURU.	NONE
