    IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY
                       BENCH AT AURANGABAD	PREAMBLE
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 155 OF 2006

Navnath s/o Dattatraya Waghmare,      ...Appellant
	PREAMBLE
age 28 years, occ. labour	PREAMBLE
,
r/o Diksal, Taluka Karjat,
District Ahmednagar	PREAMBLE
Versus

The State of Maharashtra,             ...Respondent
through Police Station Officer,
Police Station, Ashti,
Taluka Ashti, District Beed.

                                             .....
Mr.C.V.Thombre, advocate for the appellant
Mrs.R.D.Reddy, A.P.P. for the respondent

                                             .....

            CORAM : NARESH H.PATIL
                          AND
                          P.R.BORKAR, JJ.

            DATED : 14.1.2008	PREAMBLE
ORAL JUDGMENT	PREAMBLE
 : (Per P.R.Borkar, J.)	NONE
 1.  The appellant is convicted by the learned Sessions Judge, Beed, on 5.1.2006 in Sessions Case No.
 7 of 2005, for committing murder of his wife Manjubai and thus committing offence punishable under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life by his judgment and order.	RLC

 2.  Briefly stated, deceased Manjubai was wife of present appellant.	FAC
They married 15-16 years before the incident on 2.10.2004.	FAC
They were blessed with two sons and a daughter.	FAC
Still the appellant was suspecting character of Manjubai and harass her.	FAC
As a result, Manjubai used to leave the house and go to the house of her sister Tarabai (pw3) or to her brother's house.	FAC

Accused used to go and bring her back and again they used to live together.	FAC
This happened many times.	FAC

 3.  Fifteen days before 2.10.2004 Manjubai had come to the house of Tarabai (pw3) after she was beaten by accused-appellant due to suspicion on her character and was living with Tarabai (pw3) at Hingni, Taluka Ashti, District Beed.	FAC
The appellant is resident of village Diksal, Taluka Karjat, District Ahmednagar.	FAC
On 1.10.2004 the appellant went to bring back his wife.	FAC

 Tarabai (pw3) and deceased Manjubai had gone in the land of Tarabai.	FAC
They returned at about 6.00 p.m.	FAC
On that day, the husband of Tarabai (pw3) Popat Pawal had gone to the brother of Tarabai for some reason and he had not returned back due to heavy rains.	FAC
Bapu (pw6) son of Tarabai was at the house when the appellant came.	FAC

 Tarabai (pw3), Bapu (pw6), the appellant and deceased Manjubai took dinner and Manjubai and Tarabai went to sleep in a room described as "Malwad".	FAC
Tarabai (pw3) and Bapu (pw6) slept in kitchen.	FAC
At about 4.00 a.m.
 there was sound of opening door and Tarabai (pw3) saw the appellant going out.	FAC
She thought that he might be going for answering nature's call and went to sleep.	FAC
At 6.00 a.m. Tarabai (pw3) got up and was doing her daily chores.	FAC
Tarabai (pw3) asked Bapu (pw6) to wake up Manjubai and the appellant, but he did not go.	FAC
At about 6.30 a.m. Tarabai (pw3) went to knock the door of "Malwad", but the door got opened and she saw Manjubai lying in a pool of blood.	FAC
Manjubai was dead.	FAC
An iron pestle was lying nearby.	FAC
The appellant was not there.	FAC

So, Tarabai (pw3) raised shouts.	FAC
Bapu (pw6), neighbour, Ambadas Gavane (pw5) and others came.	FAC
The matter was informed to Pandurang Zambare (pw8) who was police patil of village Hingni.	FAC
Pandurang (pw8) went and informed the incident to police.	FAC
Head constable Madhukar Shinde (pw9) came, drew inquest and spot panchanama, sent dead body for autopsy, recorded complaint of Tarabai (pw3) and then registered the offence.	FAC
Further investigation was carried by Balasaheb Salve (pw11) and Krishna Bandapatte (pw12).
 4.  	FAC
The accused was absconding since the happening of the incident and police were searching him.	FAC
Police learnt that the appellant had hired a bicycle from Santosh Tandale (pw10) and had not returned the bicycle.	FAC

 Police later on got information that the appellant was working at a Dhaba (restaurant) at Wanjare Fata on Beed-Ahmednagar road.	FAC
The restaurant was run in the name of "Khandeshwari Dhaba" by Ashok Yeole (pw7).	FAC
So the police went and inquired with Ashok Yeole (pw7) and showed him photograph of the appellant.	FAC
The persons working there identified the photograph as another waiter working under name Ramesh Raut.	FAC
The appellant was then arrested.	FAC
Thereafter the appellant produced his clothes which were worn by him at the time of the incident and a bicycle which was attached under panchanama.	FAC
The Chemical Analyser found human blood stains on the pant of the appellant which was washed several times in the mean time.	FAC
The appellant was absconding from 2.10.2004 to 15.11.2004.	FAC
Finally the police filed chargesheet against the appellant.	FAC

 5.  The prosecution examined Tarabai (pw3) at Exh.26 and Bapu (pw6) at Exh.31.	FAC
Both of them supported the prosecution case and stated that the accused used to suspect character of Manjubai and used to illtreat, beat and drive her out.	FAC
Manjubai had come to them before 15 days before the incident.	FAC
The accused came on earlier day and they had dinner at night.	FAC
Thereafter Manjubai and the appellant went to sleep in the room called "Malwad".	FAC
According to Tarabai (pw3) at 4.00 a.m. she saw appellant opening the door of the house, but she thought that he might be going out for answering nature's call.	FAC
Both witnesses also stated that at about 6.30 a.m. Tarabai opened the door, saw Manjubai lying dead and Tarabai shouted and Bapu (pw6) also came there.
	FAC
They saw Manjubai was lying dead in a pool of blood.	FAC

Thereafter neighbours were called.	FAC
The accused was missing.	FAC

 6.  The said evidence of inmates of the house is further corroborated by neighbour Ambadas Gavane (pw5) who stated that he was knowing deceased Manjubai.	FAC
She had come to reside with her sister Tarabai (pw3) 8-10 days prior to the incident.	FAC
He had also seen the appellant at village Hingni on the previous day of incident in the evening.	FAC
At about 6.30 p.m. the brother-in-law of Tarabai, by name Krishna, came to him at 6.30 a.m. and told him that the appellant had killed his wife Manjubai and he wanted to make a phone call.	FAC

 7.  This evidence is further supported by the police patil Pandurang Zambare (pw8) who is examined at Exh.33.
 	FAC
He stated that he was residing in his field at Hingni.	FAC
At about 9.00 a.m. he came to village locality.	FAC
People had gathered at the house of Popat Pawal the husband of Tarabai.	FAC
On inquiry he came to know that sister of Tarabai was dead inside the house and so he went and saw the dead body.	FAC
There were injuries on the forehead of the deceased.	FAC
So he went to Ashti police station and lodged report Exh.34 which was treated as accidental death report and inquiry was     	FAC
taken over by Head Constable Madhukar Shinde (pw9) 8.	FAC
Madhukar Shinde (pw9) stated at Exh.35 that he went to the place of the incident, drew inquest panchanama and spot panchanama and also recorded statement of Tarabai (pw3) which was treated as complaint.
 9.  The evidence of Madhukar Shinde (pw8) is further corroborated by panch Laxman Zambare (pw1) examined at Exh.20.	FAC
He proved the spot panchanama.	FAC
The inquest panchanama Exh.18 is admitted by the accused under Section 294 of the Criminal Procedure Code.	FAC
It is abundantly clear that it was a homicide.	FAC
10. Dr. Kalkute (pw4) performed the postmortem on the dead body on same day and he found following external injuries on the person of the deceased.	FAC

 "(I) Clean lacerated wound on left eyebrow laterally, size 2 x 1 x 1/2 C.M.
 (II) Clean lacerated wound on scalp, posteriorly, just behind left ear, size 5 x 1 x 1/2 C.M.
 (III) Clean lacerated wound on left parietal region on scalp, size 2 x 1 x 1/2 C.M.
 (IV) C.L.W. on left pinna posteriorly, 2 x 1/2 x 1/2 C.M.
 	FAC
(V)  C.L.W. in front of left pinna 1 x 1/2 x 1/2 C.M.	FAC

 (VI) Fracture of mandible on chin and just below left ear.	FAC
"
 .  On internal           examination  the doctor  found following injuries.	FAC
"(I) Head injury blood clot blackish red in colour, in frontal area lateral to left eye, size 2 x 2 x 1/2 C.M.
 (II) Blood clot just behind left ear posteriorly, 5 x 1 x 1/2 C.M.
 (III) Blood clot just below left parietal region, 2 x 1 x 1/2 C.M. "
 .	FAC
 According to the doctor, the external injuries mentioned at Sr. Nos. I to III correspond to the internal injuries noted and the cause of death was intracranial haemorrhage due to head injury associated with mandible fracture.	FAC
11. All the witnesses have stated about the iron pestle stained with blood lying near the dead body of Manjubai.	FAC
So all above said evidence clearly showed that Manjubai and the appellant had slept together in the room called "Malwad" at night.	FAC
Since early morning of the incident the appellant was missing and Manjubai was found dead in the house.	FAC
It is argued before us that though Tarabai (pw3) and Bapu (pw6) had slept in the kitchen which was nearby, they did not hear any sound or shout.	FAC
If a person fast asleep is given blow with heavy iron article like pestle on head, there are no chances of raising any voice by such person and, therefore, if nobody had heard any sound or shouts of Manjubai, it is not unnatural.	FAC

 12. The learned advocate also drew our attention to cross-examination of Bapu (pw6) and argued that Bapu has not informed police patil or police immediately.	FAC
The conduct of the appellant is also worth considering.	FAC
The appellant was not seen since prior to 6.30 a.m. till he was arrested after one and half months.	FAC
Police Sub-Inspector Salve (pw11) has stated that he took over investigation on 2.10.2004 at 10.00 p.m.	FAC
The offence was registered under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.	FAC
Since it was late at night, he went through the papers, but did not go to the scene of offence.	FAC
Already inquest and spot panchanamas were drawn.	FAC
The accused was absconding.	FAC
He tried to search and trace out the accused, but could not find him.	FAC
He also went to Hingni and recorded the statements of witnesses.	FAC
He went to village Diksal to trace out the accused.	FAC
Head Constable Shinde (pw9) was sent for tracing out the accused.	FAC
It transpired that the accused had hired one bicycle from a cycle mart at Mirajgaon.	FAC
So Police Sub-Inspector Salve went and met the shop keeper who is Santosh Tandale (pw10) and told him not to disclose anybody about his arrival at the shop, but to inform him if the appellant returned for returning the bicycle.	FAC
He continued the search of the appellant at places like Jamkhed, Mirajgaon, Diksal, Khadkat and other villages, but accused was not found.	FAC
He sent articles like, sari of the deceased, her petticoat, simple earth, blood mixed earth, blood stained pestle to the Chemical Analyser.	FAC

He produced the report of the Chemical Analyser at Exhs.
43 and 44.	FAC
Thereafter he was asked to hand over the investigation to the Police Inspector Bandapatte (Pw12) on 25.10.2004.	FAC

 13. Police Inspector Bandapatte (pw12) stated that he also recorded statements of some witnesses.	FAC
Then he learnt that one person having bicycle with him and belonging to village Mirajgaon had come to Khandeshwari Dhaba situated at Manewadi shivar in Patoda Taluka near Nagar-Beed road.	FAC
The photograph of the appellant was available with them and, therefore, they went to the said Dhaba (restaurant) and inquired with the owner regarding the appellant - Navnath Waghmare.	FAC
On seeing the photograph the workers working in the said Dhaba said that one Ramesh Raut just looking like the person in the photograph was working in the said Dhaba.	FAC
The appellant was found sitting in the nearby agricultural land.	FAC
He was arrested and Exh.47 was drawn.	FAC
Thereafter the appellant showed willingness on 18.11.2004, while in the police custody, to produce the bicycle and his blood stained clothes.	FAC
Accordingly memorandum was prepared.	FAC

Thereafter the appellant again took police and panchas to Khandeshwari Dhaba and produced one pant and shirt from a drawer of pan shop nearby the Dhaba.	FAC
He also produced bicycle which was attached under panchanama Exh.25.	FAC
The said evidence is supported by the panch on discovery panchanama - Rajendra Tawale (pw2).	FAC
The clothes of the accused were also sent to the Chemical Analysis and the report of the Chemical Analyser detected the traces of human blood on the pocket of the pant.	FAC

 14. The police also recorded the statement of the owner of the cycle mart - Santosh Tandale (pw10) who proved that the appellant had taken on hire the said bicycle.	FAC

 15. Thus, in this case the circumstances proved clearly indicate that the appellant had slept with deceased Manjubai in the same room on fateful night.	ANALYSIS

The appellant left the house just before Tarabai (pw3) woke up at about 6.00 a.m. and thereafter he was missing.	ANALYSIS
Tarabai (pw3) when went to woke up the appellant and Manjubai, saw Manjubai lying dead in the pool of blood.	ANALYSIS
The iron pestle used for making powder of chilly was lying there.	ANALYSIS
It was stained with blood.	ANALYSIS

 16. The evidence of the doctor shows that the injuries were possibly caused by the iron pestle - article no.2.	ANALYSIS
The accused was working in Khandeshwari Dhaba under pseudonym 'Ramesh Raut'.	ANALYSIS
He did not attend funeral of his wife and was absconding for one and half months.	ANALYSIS
There was also motive in as much as there was suspicion about the character.	ANALYSIS
He had quarrels with the wife.	ANALYSIS
So in our opinion the chain of the circumstances is complete.	ANALYSIS

 17. The learned advocate cited some cases.	ARG_PETITIONER
The first is Kantilal alias K.L.Gordhandas Soni vs State of Gujarat (AIR 2003 SC 684).	ARG_PETITIONER
In that case it was held, the circumstances that the accused was seen at the house of deceased on fateful day, he had given gold ornaments to gold smith for melting and he had sold gold ingots to a Jeweller were not established.	ARG_PETITIONER
The neighbour who had deposed to have seen the accused-appellant in the house on fateful day was not found trustworthy.	ARG_PETITIONER
He could not state how he could identify the accused-appellant though there was no light and his statement was recorded after 39 days.	ARG_PETITIONER
So that was the decision on the facts of the said case.	ARG_PETITIONER

 18. The second case cited is State of U.P. vs Arun Kumar Gupta (AIR 2003 SC 801).	PRE_RELIED
In that case the witnesses who had seen accused and deceased entering house of accused, disclosed that fact at the time of his examination.	PRE_RELIED
It was found that the venue of offence was most unsuitable for offence.	PRE_RELIED
The blood stained articles recovered were not sent for examination.	ANALYSIS
The evidence was not found reliable.	ANALYSIS
Though it is alleged that injuries were caused inside the house, the body of the deceased was found in a well.	ANALYSIS
There was no trail of blood from house to well where dead body was found.	ANALYSIS

Therefore it was held in the facts of the said case that evidence was not sufficient to base conviction on the basis of circumstantial evidence.	ANALYSIS

 19. ln	PRE_RELIED
the case of Joseph s/o Kooveli Poulo vs State of Kerala (2000) 5 SCC 197, deceased, an employee of a school was taken away from the school by the accused-appellant under a false pretext.	PRE_RELIED
She was last seen alive in the company of the appellant and the jewels worn by her at the time of her leaving the school with appellant were seized on the basis of information given by the appellant.	ANALYSIS
The appellant instead of explaining those incriminating circumstances had taken a defence of total denial of everything when those circumstances were brought to his notice by the Court.	ANALYSIS

Such denial was held to be providing missing link connecting the appellant with the crime.	ANALYSIS
20. In the present case also the appellant has come with a case of total denial.	ANALYSIS
He does not explain what had happened in the room in which he was sleeping with his wife Manjubai, why he left the house without telling anyone before 6.00 a.m. and under what circumstances Manjubai had sustained injuries.	ANALYSIS

 21. It may be noted that Dr.Kalkute (pw4) in his statement has stated that the death must have been caused about 6 to 7 hours after the last meal and it has come in the evidence of Tarabai (pw3) that she herself, Manjubai, the appellant and Bapu (pw6) all had dinner at 8.30 p.m. or so.	RATIO
So the death must have occurred somewhere at 3.00 to 4.00 a.m. when the appellant alone was in the company of the deceased.	RATIO
In the facts and the circumstances of the case, we find no merit in the appeal and the same deserves to be dismissed.	RPC

 22. In the result, the appeal is dismissed.	RPC

 (P.R.BORKAR, J.)          (NARESH H.PATIL, J.) dbm/cra155.06	NONE
