IN THE COURT OF THE S.D.J.M., PANPOSH AT ROURKELA	PREAMBLE


                       DISTRICT- SUNDARGARH.	PREAMBLE


Present :	PREAMBLE
        Sri Amaresh Nayak,M.A, LL.M.,
                  S.D.J.M., Panposh.	PREAMBLE
G.R. Case No. 734/16
                  Trial.	PREAMBLE
No.123/2016	PREAMBLE


                  S T A T E

                           Vrs.

                  1.Santanu Chhatria @ Gandhi, aged about 21
                   years, S/o-Late Jayaram Chhatria.

                   2.Anu Chhatria, aged about 28 years, D/o-Late
                   Jayaram Chhatria.

                  3.Rasa Chhatria, aged about 50 years, W/o-Late
                  Jayaram Chhatria
                  	PREAMBLE
All are resident of Dwarikadas Daffai,
                  P.S-Birmitrapur, Dist-Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE
4.Pima Chhatria, aged about 27 years,D/o- Late
                  Jayaram Chatria and W/o-Sunil Tandi of Golghar
                  of Sector-5, P.S- Sector-7, Dist-Sundargarh.

                                                        ...	PREAMBLE
Accused persons.	PREAMBLE


Offences U/s 452/294/323/506/34 of Indian Penal Code	PREAMBLE


Counsel for Prosecution :	PREAMBLE
Shri J.B.Sunani
Counsel for Defence :            A.P.P., Rourkela.	PREAMBLE

                                 Shri B.Garud & Assts.

                                 Adv., Rourkela.	PREAMBLE


Date of Argument  : 10.07.2017
Date of Judgment	PREAMBLE
 : 24.07.2017	PREAMBLE


                               J U D G M E N T	PREAMBLE

 The accused persons stand charged for the offences punishable U/s 452/294/323/506/34 of the Indian Penal Code.	FAC

 2.  The prosecution case in nut shell is as follows :- On 09.05.2016 at about 11.30 A.M the complainant Geeta Badaik lodged a written report at Birmitrapur P.S to the effect that neice of accused Santanu @ Gandhi used to go to her house for doing tuition of her son.	FAC
Some times her uncle accused Santanu @ Gandhi also used to go to her house.	FAC
Subsequently, complainant and her husband denied the accused Santanu to go to their house.	FAC
On 03.05.2016 at about 10 A.M while her husband was absent in the house accused Santanu @ Gandhi went to her house and abused her in filthy language, assaulted her by pressing her neck and threatened with dire consequence.	FAC
Accused also threatened to kill her husband.	FAC

 Again on 04-05- 2016, the mother of accused Gandhi and his two sisters namely Pima and Annu went to her house, dragged her from the house and abused her in filthy language and threatened with dire consequence.	FAC
On her report IIC, Birmitrapur P.S registered P.S. case No.62/2016 and directed ASI of police B.K.Barla to take up investigation.	FAC
During course of investigation, subsuequent I.O ASI of Police Mohan Chandra Kharsel visited the spot, prepared spot map, examined the complainant and other witnesses and on completion of investigation submitted charge sheet against the accused persons.	FAC

 3.            The accused persons pleaded innocence and false implication.	FAC
4.  The points for determination in this case are as follows:- (I) Whether on 03.05.2016 and 04.05.2016 at around 10AM, accused persons in furtherance of their common intention committed house tresspass by forcibly entering into the house of complainant with an intent to assault the complainant ?	ISSUE

    (II)Whether on the said dates, time and place accused persons in furtherance of their common intention abused the informant in obscene language causing annoyance to her and others ?	ISSUE

    (III)Whether on the said dates, time and place accused persons in furtherance of their common intention assaulted the informant causing injury and thus voluntarily caused hurt ?	ISSUE

    (IV)Whether on the said dates, time and place accused persons in furtherance of their common intention threatened the informant as well to her husband with dire consequence ?	ISSUE

 5.  In support of its case prosecution has examined nine witnesses.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 is the informant, P.W.2 is the husband of P.W.1, P.W.3 is an independent occurrence witness, P.W.4 is the younger sister of the complainant, P.W.5 is the cousin brother-in-law of complainant, P.W.6 is the Medical Officer who examined the complainant-cum-injured, P.W.7 is the elder sister of complainant, P.W.8 and P.W.9 are the I.Os of this case.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand defence has examined all the accused persons as witnesses along with another having altogether examined five defence witnesses as D.W.1, D.W.2, D.W.3, D.W.4 and D.W.5 in support of its plea.	ANALYSIS

 6.  P.W.1 who is the complainant in this case deposed before this court that neice of accused Santanu used to visit their house for doing tuition of her son.	ANALYSIS
She further stated that along with his neice accused Santanu also started coming to their house and since 4 to 5 months prior to the date of incident, Santanu and his neice used to visit their house.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 further stated that her husband denied accused Santanu to visit their house and for which they discontinued tuition but inspite of that Santanu continued to visit their house.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 stated that on dtd. 03.05.2016 she along with her husband had gone to market and had returned from market and her son had gone for tuition at nearby place and when he returned, she opened the door and went to kitchen and started cooking there.	ANALYSIS
At that point of time accused Santanu entered into their house finding the door of the house open and pressed her neck and assaulted her by slapping on her face.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 further stated that accused asked her as to why she denied him to visit their house.	ANALYSIS
It is further alleged that accused also threatened her husband to kill.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 further stated in her evidence that at the time of incident, her brother-in-law ( P.W.5) arrived at the spot and rescued her and she intimated the matter to her husband over phone who arrived at the spot.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 further stated that after this incident on dtd 04-05-2016 at 10 A.M. two sisters of accused Santanu namely Pima and Anu and their mother arrived there and forcibly tried to remove her of their house and pushed and dragged her in the corridor of her house.	ANALYSIS
She further stated that her husband arrived on getting information and accused persons Pima, Anu and mother of Santanu abused her in filthy language by saying 'CHARITRAHIN', 'VASIYA' for which she felt insulted.	ANALYSIS
P.W.-1 admitted her signature on the FIR which is marked as Ext-1 and her signature on it marked as Ext-1/1.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 admitted her signature on the Medical Report which is marked as Ext-2 and her signature on it marked as Ext-2/1.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2 who is the husband of P.W.1 corroborated the evidence of P.W.1.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2 stated that on 03.05.2016 he was in his duty and on getting telephonic call from his wife at about 9 A.M to 10 A.M, he immediately rushed to his residence and found that accused Santanu and his brother Arun (P.W.- 5) and other ladies were present in their house.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2 further stated that P.W.5 was trying to restrain the accused person but accused Santanu was creating disturbance and fighting.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2 further stated that he tried to pacify the matter but accused Santanu continued to abuse her wife saying that his wife is characterless.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2 further stated that on the next day i.e. 04.05.2016 he again got call that accused Santanu had arrived in his house and creating disturbance and assaulting.	ANALYSIS
On getting such information he reached at the house and found that accused Santanu's mother and his two sister Pima and Annu were abusing his wife saying him 'VYASIA' and on his arrival they left the spot.	ANALYSIS
P.W.-2 categorically stated that he felt defamed due to such abusive language used by the accused person.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 and P.W.2 both are occurrence witnesses in this case who corroborated the prosecution story in their evidence.	ANALYSIS
P.W.4-Sabita Badaik and P.W-7 Gulabi Badaik are post occurrence witnesses in this case who happens to be the elder sisters of the complainant.	ANALYSIS
P.W.-4 and P.W.-7 stated in their evidence that on 04.05.2016, her sister Gita Badaik (P.W.1) called them over phone and stated that her neighbour Santanu @ Gandhi had entered into her house and abused her and pressed her neck.	ANALYSIS
P.W.4 and P.W.-7 stated that at the time of getting information about the incident they were at Rourkela and on getting such information P.W.-4 along with P.W.-7 her another sister Gulabi Badaik proceeded to the spot at Birmitrapur and on their arrival P.W.1 narrated the incident to them.	ANALYSIS
P.W.4 and P.W.-7 further stated that P.W.-1 narrated the incident to them that on 03.05.2016 accused Gandhi had entered their house, abused her and pressed her neck and on the next day i.e. on 04-05-2016 at around 10 A.M., two sisters of the accused Santanu @ Gandhi namely Anu and Pima along along with their mother dragged P.W.-1 out of her house and abused her saying 'BHASIYA' and 'CHARITRAHINA'.	ANALYSIS
P.W.4 stated that husband of Geeta arrived there and rescued them.	ANALYSIS
P.W.5 is another occurrence witness in this case who is cousin brother-in-law of Geeta Badaik ( P.W.1).	ANALYSIS
P.W.5 stated that on 03.05.2016 at about 9 A.M to 10 A.M he had been to his sister-in-law's house i.e. P.W.-1 Geeta Badaik for drinking water and he saw that accused Santanu was assaulting P.W.1.	ANALYSIS
P.W.5 stated that he rescued her and other people had gathered there.	ANALYSIS
P.W.-5 further stated that P.W.1 intimated her husband who arrived there.	ANALYSIS
P.W.-5 explictly stated that P.W.-2 had previously restrained Santanu to come to their house but he did not listen and continued to visit their house.	ANALYSIS

 7.  In order to constitute an offence U/sec.452 of I.P.C. prosecution has to prove that accused persons have committed criminal trespass by entering into or remaining unlawfully in any building or tent or vessel used as a human dwelling, or any building, used as a place of worship or as a place for custody of property with an intent to have made preparation to cause hurt to any person or for assaulting any person or putting in fear of hurt or assault.	ANALYSIS
In the instant case prosecution witnesses have supported the case of the prosecution and have clearly stated that on 03.05.2016 accused Santanu entered into the house of the complainant P.W.-1 and on the following day i.e. on 04.05.2016 accused persons Pima Chhatria, Annu Chhatria and mother of Santanu @ Gandhi went inside the house of P.W.1 and abused and assaulted her.	ANALYSIS
The fact of such house trespass into the house of P.W.1 has been duly corroborated by P.W.1, P.W.2 and P.W.5 who are direct witnesses in this case.	ANALYSIS
P.W.4 and P.W.7 who are post occurrence witnesses in this case have also supported the case of the prosecution and corroborated the evidence of P.W.1, P.W.2 and P.W.5.	ANALYSIS

Though the evidence of P.W.4 and P.W-7 are hearsay but it seems consistent and corroborates with the occurrence witnesses. Section- 452 I.P.C provides that such house trespass is committed by the accused i)either with preparation of causing hurt to a person, ii)assaulting any person, iii)wrongful restrain of any person, iv)for putting some person in fear of hurt, or of assault or of wrongful restraint.	ANALYSIS
In the instant case there is ample evidence on record to suggest that accused Santanu trespassed into the house of P.W.1 on 03.05.2016 and assaulted P.W.1 and further on 04.05.2017 other accused persons forcibly entered into the house of P.W.1 and assaulted her.	ANALYSIS
All the prosecution witnesses have squarely proved the alleged offence.	ANALYSIS
So ingredients of Section-452 of I.P.C. is well made out against the accused persons.	ANALYSIS

 8.  In order to constitue an offence U/Sec 323 of IPC, prosecution is to establish that the accused persons voluntariy caused hurt to the victim.	ANALYSIS
P.W.-1 stated in her evidence that accused Santanu pressed her neck and assaulted her and further slapped her on face.	ANALYSIS

 P.W.-1 also stated that other accused persons dragged her and assaulted her.	ANALYSIS
P.W.-2 and P.W-5 also corroborated the evidence of P.W-1.	ANALYSIS
Prosecution has examined the Medical Officer as P.W.6 who stated in his evidence that on 09.05.2016 on police requisition he examined the victim Gita Badaik, W/o-Bijay Badaik and found the following injuries.	ANALYSIS
i) Two Nos of bruise of size 2"x 1"x 1/4" and another 1/2"x 1"x1/4"
on left side of the neck .	ANALYSIS
The nature of injury is simple and might have been caused by Rough hard object (Finger).	ANALYSIS
The colour of the injury changed to black.	ANALYSIS
Hence the time of injury is more than 72 hours from the examiation.	ANALYSIS
ii) Two Nos of bruise of 2"x 3/4"x 1/4" and another 1/2"x3/4"x1/4"
on left cheek.	ANALYSIS
The nature of injury is simple and might have been caused by Rough and Hard object (Finger).	ANALYSIS
The colour of the injury changed to black.	ANALYSIS
Time of injury is more that 72 hours from the examination.	ANALYSIS

 P.W.-6 further stated that such injuries may be caused due to pressure on neck with hand.	ANALYSIS
8.1  With regard to the medical examination of P.W-1, Medical officer P.W.6 stated in her evidence that on 09.05.2016, he received police requisition and examined the victim.	ANALYSIS
P.W.-6 admitted his signature on the medical report which is marked as Ext.2 and his signature on it marked as Ext.2/1.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of medical officer P.W.6 fully corroborates with the evidence of P.W.1 and P.W.2 with regard to the manner, nature , time since injury and parts of the body on which injury was inflicted.	ANALYSIS
Both P.W.1 and P.W.2 stated in their evidence that accused persons dragged P.W.-1 and accused santanu pressed her neck.	ANALYSIS
P.W.6 deposed in his evidence that he had prepared the injury report marked as Ext.2 which reveals that injury is sustained by P.W.1 on her neck and cheek.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 and P.W.2 had deposed in their evidence that P.W.-1 had sustained injury as accused Santanu pressed her neck and other accused persons dragged her from her home and assaulted her.	ANALYSIS
P.W.6 corroborated the same with his opinion report that the nature of injury found on the neck and cheek of the injured might have been caused by Rough hard object like finger.	ANALYSIS
The time of injury as reflected in the Medical report marked as Ext-2 also corroborates with the time of incident.	ANALYSIS
The Medical report reveals that the injury might have been caused more than 72 hours from the time of examiation.	ANALYSIS
The incident occurred on 03-05-2016 and 04-05-2016 and the medical examination of P.W.-1 was made on 09-05-2016.	ANALYSIS

 8.2            Learned defence counsel during course of argument brought to light that victim P.W.1 and her husband P.W.2 and brother-in law P.W.-5 are related witnesses and hence are interested.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Ld. defence counsel in the course of argument assailed the case of the prosecution and submitted before this court that there is previous animosity and bitterness between the informant and the accused persons and P.W.-1 and P.W.-2 are interested witness and hence much relevance cannot be given to their evidences and their evidence are liable to be discarded.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is the settled principle of appreciation of evidence that while appreciating the evidence of an interested or related witness having an interest in seeing the accused punished and also having some enmity with the accused, the court should take enormous care and precaution.	ARG_RESPONDENT
A related witness is not akin to an interested witness.	ANALYSIS
A witness may be called an "interested" only when he derives some benefit in seeing the accused punished.	ANALYSIS
A witness who is a natural one and is the only possible eyewitness in the circumstances of the case cannot be said to be "interested".	ANALYSIS

 8.3  Learned defence counsel during course of argument brought to light the fact that there was previous animosity and hostile relationship between the accused persons and the victim-injured P.W.1 and her husband P.W.2.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Learned counsel argued that the accused persons had been falsely implicated as P.W.-1 had asked for money from the accused Santanu and on his refusal, she had lodged this false case.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is established position of law that the evidences of the related or interested witnesses can not be discarded only on the ground that they had previous enmity or bitterness in their relationship.	ANALYSIS
Rather their evidences is to be appreciated with due care and precaution in order to oviate the possibility of false implication.	ANALYSIS
In the case at hand, the injury sustained by P.W.1 has been duly proved by the Medical Officer(P.W.6 ) in the medical report marked as Ext-2.	ANALYSIS
There is no contradiction in the evidence of P.W.1 and P.W.2 to disbelieve the fact that accused persons did not assault the victim on the date of incident.	ANALYSIS

Both P.W.1 and P.W.2 have corroborated the evidence with regard to the manner, time of incident, manner of assault and injury sustained on the body of P.W.-1.	ANALYSIS
P.W.3 is an independent occurrence witness in this case who resiled from his previous statement.	ANALYSIS
Prosecution has put leading questions to P.W.-3 U/Sec 154 of the Indian Evidence act and P.W-3 denied the suggestion and stated before this court that he had not stated to police that accused person Santanu assaulted P.W.-1 and that her son Arun Bankara dragged the accused Santanu from the house of the P.W.-1 and pacified the matter and that on the next day accused persons Santanu, Pima, Anu and others arrived at the house of the P.W.-1 and abused her in filthy language .	ANALYSIS

 8.4  In the cross examination of P.W.-1 and P.W-2, defence had tried to bring the fact that there was bitterness in the relationship between the informant and the accused.	ANALYSIS
But there is no evidence on record that P.W.-1 and P.W-2 had any differences with the accused persons.	ANALYSIS
Further, in absence of any enmity with the accused, there is no reason as to why P.W-1 would implicate the accused persons falsely in this case.	ANALYSIS
Defence had taken the plea that the informant (P.W.-1 ) had previous animosity or vendetta with the accused as the informant had sought for monetary help from accused Santanu and since he refused to pay, this false case had been foisted against them.
	ANALYSIS
But the bitterness of relationship has not been established from the evidence on record.	ANALYSIS
Ld defence counsel had not succeeded in shaking the evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-2 in any manner regarding commission of the offence by the accused persons.	ANALYSIS
Since their evidence is consistent and trustworthy, the fact of being a relative or interested witness is not a ground to affect the credibility of a witness.	ANALYSIS

In view of the aforementioned discussion it can be safely held that the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt that the accused persons assaulted P.W.-1 causing injury which is imperative to rope the accused for commission of offence U/Sec 323 of IPC.	ANALYSIS
Thus, the most vital ingredients of the offence U/Sec 323 of IPC are proved.	ANALYSIS

 9.  Section-294 of I.P.C is attracted when someone does any obscene act in any public place or sings, recites or utters any obscene songs, ballad or words, in or near any public place and has so caused annoyance to others.	ANALYSIS
In the instant case, P.W.1 had categorically stated in her evidence that on 04.05.2016 accused persons Pima and Annu and their mother arrived at her house and abused her saying 'Charitrahina' and 'Vaishya'.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 had categorically stated that she was insulted because of such abusive words used by the accused persons.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2 also stated that accused person Santanu abused her wife saying characterless on dtd. 03-05-2016 and on 04-05-2016 Pima and Annu and their mother abused her wife saying 'VAISYA'.	ANALYSIS
In the instant case in order to constitute the offence U/sec.294 of I.P.C the prosecution has to prove that accused persons abused the informant-P.W.1 in obscene language in a public place and that such use of obscene words caused annoyance to others.	ANALYSIS
In the instant case both P.W.1 and P.W.2 have corroborated the prosecution story regarding abusive language used by the accused persons and annoyance caused to them.	ANALYSIS
P.W.-1 had stated in her evidence that she felt insulted because of the abusive laguage spoken by the accused persons.	ANALYSIS
P.W-2 had also stated that he felt defamed because of such obscene words uttered by the accused persons.	ANALYSIS
Now it has to be seen whether the place of occurrence can be construed to be a public place or not.	ANALYSIS
The alleged incident occurred inside the house of the accused and was extended upto the corrider of the house of P.W-1 and P.W.-1 had stated that she was drageed and removed out of the house by the accused persons.	ANALYSIS
There is evidence on record that other people have gathered there at the spot.	ANALYSIS
On bare perusal of the evidence of P.W.-1 and P.W-2 , it is quite evident that the spot of occurrence is inside the house of P.W.-1 and the incident was taken outside by dragging P.W.-1 out of her house.	ANALYSIS
Hence it cannot be construed that the incident strictly was confined to four walls of the house of P.W.-1 as she was dragged outside her house and other persons were present there at the spot and the incident happened within their sight and hearing.	ANALYSIS
Hence the same comes under the purview of Public place. .	ANALYSIS
There is no water tight compartment to define what is a public place.	ANALYSIS
The same had to be adjudged on the parameters of the general perception.	ANALYSIS
A public place in common parlance is a place where general public had got access and free movement.	ANALYSIS
The incident commenced inside the house and the moment P.W.-1 was dragged out of her house and abused there, the incident is no longer confined to their house.	ANALYSIS
In the context of this case the spot can very well be held to be a public place where all the occurrence witnesses gathered at the time of incident and there is unrestricted access to the place by general public.	ANALYSIS
The second most important limb of section 294 of IPC is whether annoyance was caused to others in view of the obscene language used by the accused persons.	ANALYSIS
P.W.
1 had categorically stated in her evidence that she felt insulted by such use of obscene language by the accused person in abusing her.	ANALYSIS
The word annoyance used in this section has to be interpreted in the light of the facts and circumstances of this case.	ANALYSIS
The interpretation of the word annoyance cannot be constricted to the mere revelation by the witnesses that they felt annoyed on hearing such abusive language.	ANALYSIS
It is also to be inferred by necessary implications and conduct of the persons present there.	ANALYSIS
P.W.-1 explicity stated that she felt insulted because of such abusive language used by he accused persons and P.W-2 also stated that he was defamed because of the obscene words spoken by the accused persons.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of P.W.-1 corroborates the contents of the FIR marked as Ext-1 wherein it has been explicitly stated that the accused persons abused her by saying 'charitrahina' and 'Vaishya'.	ANALYSIS
Ld defence counsel had not succeeded in shaking the evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-2 in any manner regarding commission of the offence.	ANALYSIS
In view of the aforementioned discussion it can be safely held that the prosecution had proved that the offence took place in a public place and that the obscene language used by the accused persons had caused annoyance to others which is imperative to rope the accused persons for commission of offence U/Sec 294 of IPC.	ANALYSIS
Thus, the most vital ingredients of the offence U/Sec 294 of IPC are proved.	ANALYSIS

 10.  In order to constitute an offence U/Sec 506 of IPC, prosecution has to prove that (i) accused persons threatened the informant with an intent to cause injury to his person, reputation or property (ii) accused did so with an intent to cause alarm to the victim (iii) in consequence of the above the victim was caused to perform any act which he was not legally bound to do so.	ANALYSIS
In the case in hand P.W.-1 stated that accused threatened her and also threatened to kill her husband.	ANALYSIS
None of the other prosecution witnesses have stated that accused person had threatened the informant.	ANALYSIS
There is no evidence on record to suggest that any alarm was caused to P.W-1 because of such threatening.	ANALYSIS
P.W-1 had not immediately reported the matter at police station.	ANALYSIS
Mere threatening to cause any harm or injury does not constitute an offence U/Sec 506 of IPC if no alarm is caused in consequence of it.	ANALYSIS
Hence , in view of the above discussion I do not find that prosecution has proved the offence U/Sec 506 of IPC beyond all reasonable doubt.	ANALYSIS

 11.  The delay of lodging of FIR had not been substantiated by the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
The defence had also not brought any allegation for such delay.	ANALYSIS
The defence had examined the accused persons as D.W.-1, D.W.-2, D.W.-3 and D.W.-4 as defence witnesses.	ANALYSIS
Defence had also examined D.W.5 as an independent defence witness.	ANALYSIS
All the defence witnesses deposed that at the time of incident they were not present at the spot as they had gone to house of accused Pima Chhatria at Rourkela.	ANALYSIS
They stated that on 01-05-2016, accused Santanu along with his friends were playing cricket and at that time Arun Bankara (P.W.-5) arrived there and assaulted accused Santanu and that he was rescued by his friends.	ANALYSIS
It is further stated that P.W.-1,P.W.-2 and P.W.- 3 assaulted and abused Santanu at the cricket field.	ANALYSIS
It is further stated that after the same, P.W.-1 and P.W.-2 went to the house of accused persons and abused and assaulted them.	ANALYSIS
It is further stated that P.W.-1 had lodged this false case as neice of Santanu namely Anjali Deep demanded the tuition fees which were due to her but P.W.-1 refused to pay the same for which Santanu had interfered in the matter.	ANALYSIS
It is further stated that P.W.-1 had asked for monetary help from Santanu and when he did not pay, this false case had been foisted.	ANALYSIS
It is further stated by the defence witnesses that in the evening of 01-05-2016 they went to the house of accused Pima Chhatria at Roukela and hence were not present at the spot of incident as alleged.	ANALYSIS

 On careful appreciation of the defence witnesses, it is revealed that the accused persons had taken the plea of Alibi.	ANALYSIS
The same plea has not been taken by defence at the time of cross- examination of prosecution witnesses or at the time of statement of accused recorded U/sec.313 of Cr.P.C.	ANALYSIS
But I do not find the evidence of the defence credible enough to sake the case of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
12.  From my above discussions, I am of the view that the prosecution has able to prove the case against the accused persons for committing offence U/S 452/294/323/34 of I.P.C. but failed to prove the offence against the accused U/S-506/34 of I.P.C.
 13.  	RATIO
Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and the evidence in its proper perspective, this Court came to a conclusion that the prosecution is able to prove its case beyond all reasonable doubt against the accused persons for committing the offences U/Sec 452/294/323/34 of IPC but has failed to prove its case beyond all reasonable doubt against the accused persons for committing an offence U/Sec 506/34 of IPC.	RATIO
Hence, the accused persons are found guilty for committing the offences U/Sec 452/294/323/34 IPC and convicted them thereunder U/Sec 248(2) of Cr.PC.	RATIO
Accused persons are found not guilty for committing offence U/Sec 506/34 of IPC and acquitted thereof U/Sec 248(1) of Cr.PC.	RATIO

 S.D.J.M,PANPOSH, ROURKELA 14.	NONE
The convicts are the nighbour of the vicim.	ANALYSIS
The offence is committed against women.	ANALYSIS
The manner of offence is henios in nature and amounts to an offence against the weaker section of the society.	ANALYSIS

Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, nature and manner of commission of the offence, I am not inclined to extent the benevolent provision of Probation of Offenders Act 1958 in favour of the convict.	ANALYSIS

 S.D.J.M,PANPOSH, ROURKELA 15 .	NONE
   HEARING ON THE QUESTION OF SENTENCE Heard Ld. Counsel for the convicts and Ld. APP on the point of sentence.	NONE
The Ld. Counsel for the convicts prays to take a lenient view as convicts belong to one family and three of the convicts are women and the convict Santanu is the only son of the parents and is the sole bread earner of his family.	ARG_RESPONDENT
All the members of his family are solely dependant on him and he toils hard to earn a square meal a day for his family.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Ld counsel submitted that accused Rasa Chhatria is a widow and old lady.	ARG_RESPONDENT
On the other hand the Ld. APP prays for stringent punishment as the offence is targetted against women in the broad day light.	ARG_PETITIONER

 Typed by me in official laptop in the open court S.D.J.M., Panposh.	NONE

 16.         Accordingly, I sentence each convicts to undergo simple imprisionment for a term of Three (03) years and a fine of Rs 1000/- (One thousand only) and in default of payment of fine to further undergo Thirty (30) days of simple imprisionment for committing an offence U/Sec 452 I.P.C. And sentence each convicts to undergo simple imprisionment for a term of one (01) Year and a fine of Rs.600/- (Six hundred only) and in default of payment of fine to further undergo Fifteen (15) days of simple imprisionment for committing an offence U/Sec 323 I.P.C. And sentence each convicts to undergo simple imprisoment for a term of Three (03) months and fine of Rs 300/-(Rupees three hundred) and in default of payment of fine to further undergo 10 (Ten) days of simple imprisonment for committing an offence U/Sec 294 of IPC.	RPC
All the sentences shall run concurently.	RPC
The UTP period already undergone, if any, be set off against the sentence of imprisionment as per the provision of section 428 Cr.Pc.	RPC

 S.D.J.M., Panposh.	NONE
Pronounced the judgment in the open court on this the 24th day of July, 2017, under my seal and signature.	NONE
Status of the Acuused persons-	NONE
All the accused persons were on bail by the court and are present in the court at the time of pronouncement of the judgment.	NONE

 S.D.J.M.,Panposh.	NONE

 Partly Dictated and Partly typed by me in official laptop & corrected by me.	NONE

 S.D.J.M., Panposh.	NONE
List of witnesses for prosecution :- P.W.1 :	NONE
Geeta Badaik P.W.2: Bijay Badaik P.W.3:Karmi Bankara P.W.4:Sabita Badaik P.W.5:Arun Bankara P.W.6:Dr. Debashis Ghosh P.W.7:Gulabi Badaik P.W.8:Mohan Chandra Kharsel P.W.9:Binod Kishore Barla	NONE
List of witnesses for Defence :- D.W.1    Santanu Chhatria @ Gandhi D.W.2 Anu Chhatria D.W.3    Pima Chhatria D.W.4    Sumitra Chhatria @ Rasa D.W.5 Anjali Deep @ Rinki List the Exhibits marked for Prosecution :- Ext.1    F.I.R.
 Ext.1/1  Signature of P.W.1 on Ext.1 Ext.1/2  Signature of P.W.9 on Ext.1 Ext.2    Injury Report.
Ext.2/1  Signature of P.W.1 on Ext.2.
Ext.2/2  Signature of P.W.6 on Ext.2 Ext.3    Spot map Ext.3/1  Signature of P.W.9 on Ext.3 Ext.4    Injury Requisition.	NONE
Ext.4/1  Signature of P.W.9 on Ext.4 List of Exhibits marked for Defence :- -NIL- S.D.J.M.,Panposh.
 The case record is put up today for judgment.	NONE
Accused persons are present before this court today and filed hazira.	NONE
Learned defence counsel and learned A.P.P is also present.	NONE
Judgment is ready vide separate sheets and the same is pronounced today in the open court on this 24th July,2017 under hand and seal of this court.	NONE
The accused persons are found guilty for committing the offences U/sec.452/ 294/ 323 of I.P.C and convicted thereunder U/sec.248(2) of Cr.P.C.	RPC
Accused persons are found not guilty for committing offence U/sec.506 of I.P.C and acquitted thereunder U/sec.248(1) Cr.P.C.	RPC
This court was not inclined to extent the benevolent provision of Probation of Offenders Act in favour of the convicts and conducted hearing on the question of sentence.	RPC
Heard learned counsel for the convict and learned A.P.P on the question of sentence.	RPC
Accordingly, I sentence each convicts to undergo simple imprisonment for a term of Three (03) years and a fine of Rs 1000/-(One thousand only) and in default of payment of fine to further undergo Thirty (30) days of simple imprisionment for committing an offence U/Sec 452 I.P.C. And sentence each convicts to undergo simple imprisionment for a term of one (01) Year and a fine of Rs.600/- (Six hundred only) and in default of payment of fine to further undergo Fifteen (15) days of simple imprisionment for committing an offence U/Sec 323 I.P.C.	RPC
And simple imprisoment for a term of Three (03) months and fine of Rs 300/-(Rupees three hundred) and in default of payment of fine to further undergo 10 (Ten) days of simple imprisonment for committing an offence U/Sec 294 of IPC.	RPC
All the sentences shall run concurently.	RPC
The UTP period already undergone, if any, be set off against the sentence of imprisionment as per the provision of section 428 Cr.P.C.	RPC
Issue free copy of the judgment today to the convicts.	RPC

 S.D.J.M.,Panposh Fine not paid.	NONE
Start a separate Misc. Case.	NONE
S.D.J.M.,Panposh Learned counsel for the convicts files a petition U/sec.389(3) of Cr.P.C. with a prayer to release the convicts on bail as the convicts shall prefer appeal before the appellate court challenging the conviction and sentence passed by this court.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The convicts were on court bail and maximum sentence passed is 3 years.	ANALYSIS
In view of Section-389(3) of Cr.P.C , I am inclined to release the convicts on bail for preferring appeal before the appellate court for a period of 30 days from today.	ANALYSIS
Hence, convicts be released on bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs.20,000/- with one solvent sureties each for the like amount.	RPC
The sentence of imprisonment shall, so long as he is so released on bail, be deemed to be suspended.	RPC
Put up on 24.08.2017.	NONE

 S.D.J.M.,Panposh	NONE
