Government of Karnataka	PREAMBLE

Form No.9(Civil) Title Sheet for
Judgments in Appeals (R.P.93)	PREAMBLE


IN THE COURT OF THE VII ADDL. DISTRICT JUDGE,
                                   MYSURU

           Dated this the 26th day of October 2015	PREAMBLE
PRESENT : SRI C. CHANDRASEKHAR, LL.M.,
                              VII	PREAMBLE
Addl. District Judge, Mysuru.

                         	PREAMBLE
R.A NO.349/2013

Appellant /s                      1	PREAMBLE
Tulasi	PREAMBLE
Bai, Aged about 68 years	PREAMBLE
, w/o
                                        late Srinivasa Rao	PREAMBLE


                                  2 Vinayaka	PREAMBLE
, Aged about 48 years, S/o late	PREAMBLE

                                        Srinivasa Rao.

                                  3 Satish,	PREAMBLE
Aged about 46 years	PREAMBLE
, S/o late	PREAMBLE

                                        Srinivasa Rao

                                  4 Kishore, Aged about 32 years, S/o late	PREAMBLE

                                        Srinivasa Rao
                                        Appellants 1 to 4 are residing at Door
                                        No.616, 4th cross Road, (Near
                                        Mahadeshwara Temple) Pipeline road,
                                        Srinagar, Bangalore-560 050.

                                  5 Roopa, Aged about 35 years, W/o
                                        Manjunath Rao, Residing at Door
                                        No.2070, 17thds West cross, Ashoka
                                        Road, Lashkar mohalla, Mysuru-560 001.

                                  6 Vijayalakshmi, Aged about 33 years,
                                        W/	PREAMBLE
o Narayana Rao, Residing at Door	PREAMBLE

                                        No.16, Keerthi Apartments, Pallavaram,	PREAMBLE

                                        Chennai-560 001.

                                  Sri M.L.S. Adv.,


                    	PREAMBLE
V/s
                    1 K.Pushkar Rao  	PREAMBLE
Since dead	PREAMBLE
by his L.Rs	PREAMBLE


                            1.a) Kalavathi Bai,	PREAMBLE
Aged about 60 years,	PREAMBLE

                            W/o Late Pushkar Rao
                            1.b)Sanju Bai, Aged about 40 years W/o
                            Chandrakanth Rao

                            1.c)Bharathi Bai,	PREAMBLE
Aged about 38 years
                            	PREAMBLE
W/o Ganesh Rao,
                            	PREAMBLE
L.Respondent	PREAMBLE
1.(a) to	PREAMBLE
1.(c) all are
                            residing at No.3055, Near Siddappaji
                            Temple, Ontipalya Bore, Hunsur Taluk,
                            Mysuru District.

                    2 Srinivasa Rao, Aged abo.ut 47 years,
                            S/o Late Subba Rao, Residing at
                            D.No.2957, Dawood Khan Street,
                            Lashkar Mohalla, Mysuru-570 001.

                                 R-1, R-1(a) to (	PREAMBLE
c) Sri P.D.M.,
                              Adv., R-2 dismissed.

Date and nature of decree of  The Judgment and Decree passed in
appeal against                O.S.No.406/2009 on the file of II Addl.
                              Senior Civil Judge and CJM, Mysore
Date of institution of the    dated 26.09.2013.	PREAMBLE

appeal
                                                   30-11-2013

Date of Judgment	PREAMBLE
                     26-10-2015	PREAMBLE
Period of Judgment
                              Year/s  Month/s Day/s
                                   2	PREAMBLE

                                      1  04

                                (C.CHANDRASEKHAR),
                    	PREAMBLE
VII ADDL	PREAMBLE
DISTRICT JUDGE, MYSURU.	PREAMBLE
:: J U	PREAMBLE
D G M E	PREAMBLE
N T ::	PREAMBLE
The appellants have filed this appeal under Or.41 Rule 27 of CPC praying to set aside the judgment and decree passed in O.S. No.406/2009 dated 26.09.2013 on the file of II Addl.
Senior Civil Judge and CJM, Mysuru and dismiss the suit of the plaintiff.	FAC
2. The appellants were the defendants and respondent No.1 was the plaintiff before the lower court.	FAC
2nd respondent was the 9th defendant before the court below and as such for the sake of convenience, parties would be addressed in the course of this judgment as per their ranks before the lower court.	FAC
Facts in brief: 3.	FAC
The plaintiff had filed a suit against the defendants seeking half share and separate possession in the suit schedule property reserving right to claim mesne profits.	FAC
1st defendant is the wife of late Sreenivasa Rao, the brother of the plaintiff while defendants 2 to 8 are their children.	FAC
Earlier the suit schedule property belonged to one Valliambi and her children who had sold the same in favour of plaintiff and his elder brother Sreenivasa Rao.	FAC
As they were minors at that point of time, their grandmother Gunabiamma represented them as guardian and acquired the suit schedule property under the registered sale deed.	FAC
The plaintiff and his brother continued to enjoy the property jointly.	FAC
To the extent of his half undivided share, the plaintiff created a mortgage of the plaint schedule property in the name and favour of defendant No.9 and the said mortgage is yet to be redeemed for paucity of funds.	FAC
Until 2001, the plaintiff did not think in terms of claiming his half share by way of partition, however after the death of his elder brother Srenivasa Rao, he had called upon the defendants to effect partition and separate possession.	FAC
However, they had pleaded time.	FAC
The defendants had failed to effect partition and during 2009 the 2nd defendant did not respond positively when questioned about the prudence of the defendants in trying to postpone the partition indefinitely.	FAC
Since the plaintiff was entitled for his legitimate half share in the suit schedule property he sued the defendants claiming his share.	FAC
4. The 4th defendant for himself and on behalf of other defendants had filed written statement stating that the suit was bad for non joinder of parties as all the heirs of Gunabiyamma are not arrayed as parties.	FAC
It is their case that Gunabiyamma had purchased the suit schedule property and other properties situated in Lashkar mohalla and they were her Streedhana properties.	FAC
After her death the plaintiff, his elder brother Sreenivasa Rao and other heirs succeeded to the above properties and without impleading all the heirs of Gunabiyamma the suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary parties.	FAC
It was alleged that the plaintiff at the age of 8-10 years had run away from the house and his whereabouts were not known and presuming that he is dead, the defendants had performed his obsequies.	FAC
Late Sreenivasa Rao was looking after Gunabiyamma and out of love and affection she has bequeathed the suit schedule property in his favour.	FAC
In fact, during 1960-61 plaintiff returned home and expressed his financial difficulties and at that time Sreenivasa Rao had shown sympathy and provided accommodation in a portion of the suit schedule property and made plaintiff to settle down in Mysuru.	FAC

Thereafter, Sreenivasa Rao saw that a corporation site was allotted in the name of plaintiff in Hunsur during the year 1983- 84 as a consolation since Sreenivasa Rao got the suit schedule property from Gunabiyamma by way of bequest.	FAC
Plaintiff is a disgruntled person and at the instance of one Vijayakumar he has filed the suit in order to harass and grab the entire property.	FAC
The defendant denies that Gunabiyamma had purchased the suit schedule property under the registered sale deed dated 18.12.1940 and not under registered sale deed dated 17.12.1945 as stated in the plaint.	FAC
After the bequest was made in favour of Sreenivasa Rao, the property documents were transferred in his name.	FAC
He was paying tax to the corporation and after his death defendants are paying necessary taxes.	FAC

Plaintiff is not having any manner of right, title much less half share in the suit schedule property and hence the suit deserves to be dismissed.	FAC
The claim made by the plaintiff that he had asked the defendants for partition and allotting his half share doesn't arise in view of the bequest made by Gunabiyamma.	FAC

There is no cause of action to the suit and alleged that the plaintiff had filed a vexatious suit in order to harass them and hence it was prayed to dismiss the suit.	FAC

 5. Plaintiff had thereafter filed a rejoinder to the written statement filed by the defendants stating that plea taken about non-impleading the heirs of Gunabiyamma is not tenable as he had sought partition in the joint property of the plaintiff but not for joint family property of himself and Sreenivasa Rao and not joint family property of Gunabiyamma.	FAC

The claim made by defendants that suit schedule property was purchased by Gunabiyamma under registered sale deed dated 18.12.1940 is only an imaginary statement and further misconceived that it was her Streedhana property.	FAC
It is denied by the plaintiff that the bequest was made by Gunabiyamma in favour of Sreenivasa Rao and as such the defendants are put to strict proof to produce the alleged bequest or furnish the date of the said document.	FAC
6. On the basis of the above pleadings of the parties, the trial court has framed the following:- :I S S U E S: 1.	ISSUE
Whether the plaintiff proves that the suit schedule property at a given point of time belonged to Smt.Vallambi and her children and they have sold the same in favour of plaintiff and his brother as per the Registered sale deed dated 17.12.1945?	ISSUE
2. Whether the plaintiff proves that he and his brother are joint owners in joint possession and enjoyment of suit schedule property?	ISSUE
3. Whether the defendants prove that the suit is not properly valued and court fee paid is not sufficient?
 4. Whether the plaintiff is entitle for  share over the suit schedule property?
 5. What order or decree?	ISSUE

 Additional Issue: 1.	ISSUE
Whether the Defendants prove that the suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary parties?	ISSUE
7. In order to prove the case, plaintiff's attorney holder was examined as PW-1 and through him 7 documents came to be marked as Exs.P1 to P7.	ANALYSIS
Defendants, except for filing written statement, did not adduce any evidence or produce documents in support of their case.	ANALYSIS

 8. After perusing the evidence adduced by the plaintiff and looking in to the documents placed before court, the learned trial judge has answered issues 1, 2 and 4 in the affirmative and issue No.3 and Addl.	RLC
Issue No.1 in the negative	RLC
and decreed the suit of the plaintiff.	RLC

 9. Aggrieved by the impugned judgment and decree Appellants/defendants have come before this court urging the following grounds ; a) The trial court ought to have focused its attention on the pleading that the plaintiff has relied upon the document dated 17.12.1945 and claimed his right to seek partition but the oral evidence adduced is contrary to his pleadings, wherein it is admitted that the property was purchased in the year 1959.	ANALYSIS
The variance of pleading, the oral evidence and the documentary proof Ex.P2 do not tally and as such the trial court ought not to have relied on Ex.P2 to hold that the said document is proved.	ANALYSIS

 b) The plaintiff had not produced the legible document or certified copy of the sale deed and as such the trial court ought to have rejected Ex.P2 as illegible.	ANALYSIS

 c) The trial court ought to have rejected the evidence of PW-1 who is the power of attorney holder of plaintiff and had no personal knowledge of Ex.P2 document, as he was not at all born as on the date of the said sale deed.	ANALYSIS

    The evidence of power of attorney is no evidence in the eye of law and hence the trial court should not have relied upon the evidence of PW-1.	ANALYSIS

 d) The trial court failed to notice the fact that the suit schedule property earlier belong to Valambi and her children and from her Gunabiyamma grandmother of plaintiff and Late Sreenivasa Rao had purchased the same is not at all established, hence the finding of the trial court on issue No.1 is perverse, illegal and unsustainable in the eye of law.	ANALYSIS

 e) The trial court was also not correct in holding that Ex.P2 is an ancient document.	ANALYSIS
Since PW-1 had no personal knowledge of the said document presumption U/s. 90 of the Evidence Act was not available.	ANALYSIS

 f) The trial court ought to have held that the plaintiff had relinquished his right on the suit property since onus lie on him to seek the right of partition.	ANALYSIS
PW-1 has admitted that late Sreenivasa Rao purchased the property at Hunsur in the name of plaintiff and also had put up construction and as such the trial court ought to have presumed that the plaintiff had given up his right in the suit schedule property and should have dismissed the suit.	ANALYSIS

 g) The trial court had held that Gunabiyamma acted as guardian of plaintiff and Sreenivasa Rao.	ANALYSIS
The parents of plaintiff and Sreenivasa Raod were alive at that point of time and as such the trial court should have held that Gunabiyamma grandmother could not have acted as guardian when the parents were alive.	ANALYSIS

 h) The trial court had also erroneously came to the conclusion that the plaintiff was in possession of the suit schedule property ignoring the presumption under law that possession follows title.	ANALYSIS
The plaintiff had not established that he was not in joint possession along with the parents.	ANALYSIS

 i) The trial court ought to have held that the plaintiff was not in actual possession of the suit schedule property and further should not have held that it was the joint family property of plaintiff and Sreenivasa Rao.	ANALYSIS
The evidence on record and admissions made by PW-1 is clear that the appellants and late Sreenivasa Rao had paid taxes to the corporation which was clear that the plaintiff was excluded from joint enjoyment of the property and hence decreeing the suit of the plaintiff for partition is not sustainable in law.	ANALYSIS

 j) Lastly prayed to set aside the impugned judgment and dismiss the suit of the plaintiff.	ANALYSIS
10. By virtue of the above facts and circumstances the points that would arise for my consideration are:- (1) Whether the impugned judgment and decree of the lower court is opposed to law, facts and circumstances of the case and interference of this court is necessary?	ISSUE

 (2) What Order?	ISSUE

 11. I have heard the arguments addressed by the counsels of both parties and perused the record.	NONE

 12. My findings on the above points are as under:- Point No.1  :- In the Negative.	ANALYSIS

Point No.2 :- As per final order for the following;.
 R E A S O N S NOTE:	ANALYSIS
Initially, except filing the written statement, the defendants had not adduced any evidence.	ANALYSIS
The Attorney holder of the plaintiff was examined as PW-1 and seven documents came to be marked as Exs.P1 to P7.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter, the Trial judge heard the arguments of plaintiff and disposed the matter by pronouncing the judgment on 19.3.2011.	ANALYSIS

Thereafter, defendants filed Miscellaneous petition No.142/2011 before the lower court stating that opportunity was not given to them to present their case and the learned trial judge allowed the said petition by order dated 31.10.2011 by setting aside the judgment passed by him on 19.3.2011.	ANALYSIS

 Despite setting aside the earlier judgment and restoring the suit to its original file in order to give an opportunity to the defendants to adduce their evidence and present their case, defendants failed to do so.	ANALYSIS

 POINT NO.1:- 13.	ANALYSIS
It was the case of the plaintiff that his grand-mother Gunabiyamma had purchased the suit schedule property on behalf of herself and his brother late Sreenivasa Rao under a registered sale deed and after her demise both herself and her brother had succeeded to the said property as joint owners and since he was having rights in respect of the half share in the said property, he had filed the suit praying the court to effect partition and separate possession of his half share.	ANALYSIS
The defendants had taken omnibus plea and had denied the plaintiff's case.	ANALYSIS
It was their specific case that the suit schedule property was not amenable for partition as late Sreenivasa Rao had become the exclusive owner of the property by virtue of the bequest made in favour of Gunabiyamma.	ANALYSIS
It is pertinent to note that the pleas that were taken by the defendants in their written statement were not proved by adducing any evidence.	ANALYSIS

 The date of bequest was not mentioned in the written statement.	ANALYSIS
It appears from the rejoinder filed by the plaintiff to the written statement of the defendants, that notice was issued under Or.12 Rule.8 of CPC calling upon them to furnish copy of the bequest or at least the date of the bequest but the said notice was not complied by the defendants.	ANALYSIS
Opportunity was given, not once but twice, to the defendants to adduce evidence but they had not done so.	ANALYSIS
The learned counsel for the defendants/appellants had submitted that the trial court did not frame any issues casting burden on the defendants calling upon them to adduce evidence or to produce the bequest/will and as such no evidence was adduced by them.	ANALYSIS
Similarly, a plea was taken in the written statement that the suit schedule property and other properties were the Streedhana properties of Gunabiyamma.	ANALYSIS
On this point also no evidence was adduced and similar arguments as above was put forth that since the trial court did not frame proper issues casting burden on defendants and hence no fault can be found on the defendants for omission occurred to adduce evidence.	ANALYSIS
14. The lower court, after receiving written statement, had framed issues 1 to 5 and subsequently one additional issue came to be framed.	ANALYSIS
On perusal of the same it is seen that except issue No.3 and additional issue, all other issues were framed casting burden on the plaintiff.	ANALYSIS
No issues were framed casting burden on the defendants calling upon them to prove that the suit schedule property was a Streedhana property of Gunabiyamma.	ANALYSIS
Further no issue was also framed casting burden on the defendants to prove that Gunabiyamma had made a bequest in favour of late Sreenivasa Rao in respect of the suit schedule property.	ANALYSIS
No doubt, proper issues were not framed by the court below, yet in the impugned judgment all those points are covered by the learned trial judge and since no evidence came to be adduced by the defendants, he had accepted the case of the plaintiff and decreed the suit.	ANALYSIS
The fact that the lower court had not framed proper issues also, in my opinion, depended upon the conduct of the defendants before the lower court.	ANALYSIS
As observed above they did not contest the suit initially and as such an exparte judgment came to be pronounced on 19.3.2011.	ANALYSIS
Subsequently, though they showed interest in contesting the suit by filing Misc. petition and filed written statement, they again failed to adduce evidence and as such the trial court appears to have not shown much interest or attention towards re-casting or re-framing issues.	ANALYSIS
It is also pertinent to note at this stage that the Officer who had framed issues and the Officer who pronounced the impugned judgment are different and perhaps taking note of the reluctance and omission on the part of the defendants in adducing any evidence, the impugned judgment came to be passed after considering the material on record.	ANALYSIS
The defendants, who had not showed any interest before the trial court to adduce any evidence, are estopped from submitting arguments that they had not adduced any evidence before the trial court as there were no issues framed casting burden on them.	ANALYSIS

 15. The Attorney holder of the plaintiff namely Vijayakumar had given evidence before the lower court.	ARG_PETITIONER
The learned counsel appearing for the appellants had submitted that evidence of Attorney holder ought not to have been considered by the lower court as he had no locus standi to give evidence on behalf of the plaintiff.	ARG_PETITIONER
Even in the grounds of appeal it is alleged that PW-1/Attorney holder had no personal knowledge of Ex.P2 document as he was not born as on that date and his evidence is un-trustworthy to prove Ex.P2 transaction.	ARG_PETITIONER
On perusal of the material on record, it is seen that the plaintiff was aged about 65 years when he had given Ex.P1 power of attorney.	ARG_PETITIONER
The learned trial judge after verifying the reasons/ grounds, had allowed the application and permitted this Attorney holder to give evidence on behalf of the plaintiff.	ARG_PETITIONER
Or.3 Rule.2 of CPC expressly provides that party to the suit can give evidence through his Attorney holder.	ARG_PETITIONER
Our Hon'ble High court in the case of Gangavva v/s Arjunsa reported in (2001) 3 KCCR page 1549 has held that the provisions of Or.3 Rule 2 CPC deals with the legal position of validity and competence of the acts of the power of attorney in conducting cases.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is further observed that a party to a suit can give evidence through power of attorney and as such the evidence would be a valid substituted evidence.	ARG_PETITIONER
In yet another case, Kaju Devi and Another v/s H.S.Rudrappa @ Rudy and others, ILR-2005 Kar 4370, the GPA holder of the plaintiff was examined and he had spoken to the necessary and relevant material facts of the case which are in his personal knowledge while acting as an agent of the plaintiff and it was held that the same was permissible under the provisions of Power of Attorneys Act as well as Or.3 Rule.2 CPC R/W Sec.120 of the Evidence Act and also U/s 181 and 182 of the Indian Contract Act.	ARG_PETITIONER
It was not the case of the defendants in that case that PW-1, who acted as agent of the plaintiff, was not given authority to power of attorney to adduce evidence as a witness and it was therefore held that the contention raised by the defendants that the evidence of P.A holder should not have accepted by the lower court was not justified.	ARG_PETITIONER
The ratio laid down in the above cases squarely applies to the facts and circumstances of this case also.	ARG_PETITIONER
Admittedly the plaintiff had given power of attorney to Vijayakumar to adduce evidence on his behalf.	ARG_PETITIONER
The power of attorney came to be marked as Ex.P1.	ARG_PETITIONER
The said power of attorney holder has given evidence in respect of the material facts which are to his personal knowledge by acting as an agent on behalf of the plaintiff.	ARG_PETITIONER
Hence, the contention raised by the appellants that the evidence of P.A holder is not valid and trial court ought to have not accepted his evidence holds no water.	ARG_PETITIONER
Since Or.3 Rule.2 of CPC empowers a party to the suit to give evidence through power of attorney holder and the trial court after giving an opportunity to the plaintiff to give evidence through his Attorney holder has rightly considered his evidence, the arguments put forth by the counsel for appellants to reject the evidence of the Attorney holder is not justified.	ARG_PETITIONER

 16. As aforesaid the defendants did not adduce any evidence before the trial court in respect of the plea taken in their written statement that the suit schedule property was a Streedhana property of Gunabiyamma and they had also failed to prove that she had bequeathed the property in favour of late Sreenivasa Rao.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The counsel for the appellant pointed out that the plaintiff before the trial court had pleaded that he derives title under document dated 17.12.1945 but however the said document was not on record.	ARG_RESPONDENT
He would further address arguments that whatever document that was placed before court was dated 18.12.1940 and hence there was variance in pleadings and evidence given and as such the lower court should not have considered the case of the plaintiff and must have dismissed the suit.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is a fact that it was pleaded in the plaint that Gunabiyamma for and on behalf of the plaintiff and his brother late Sreenivasa Rao had purchased the suit schedule property under the registered sale deed dated 17.12.1945 from Smt.Valiambi and her children.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Ex.P2 is the original sale deed.	ARG_RESPONDENT
A typed copy of the said sale deed is also available on record.	ARG_RESPONDENT

Ex.P2 is the sale deed which was executed by Smt.Valiambi and her children in favour of the plaintiff and Sreenivasa Rao who was represented by Gunabiyamma as they were minors as on that date.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is seen that the sale deed is dated 18.12.1940 and not 17.12.1945 as pleaded.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Merely because the plaintiff had mentioned a wrong date of the sale deed in the plaint his entire case can not be thrown out for that reason itself.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It was submitted on behalf of the counsel for respondents that whatever may be the date of the document, the title flowed from Ex.P2 sale deed and merely because the plaintiff might have quoted a wrong date of the sale deed, it would not be a ground to disbelieve this case.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The recitals of Ex.P2 are clear that Gunabiyamma represented plaintiff and her brother Sreenivasa Rao who were the minors.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Since this appears to be the title document under which the plaintiff claims his half share in the suit schedule property, the fact that a wrong date was mentioned in the pleadings would at best be a technical error which doesn't go to the root of the case and as rightly pointed out by the counsel for respondent, on that ground itself the plaintiff's case could not have been thrown out or disbelieved by the court below.	ARG_RESPONDENT
As such the arguments addressed before this court that, there was variance between the oral and documentary evidence cannot be accepted.	ARG_RESPONDENT
At this stage, it is pertinent to note that, as Gunabiyamma represented plaintiff and his brother in purchasing the suit schedule property, it was not her Streedhana property and after her death and upon attainment of majority the plaintiff and Sreenivasa Rao succeeded to the suit property as joint owners.
	ARG_RESPONDENT
Merely because the plaintiff was not available in Mysuru for certain time, is not a ground to presume that he was not in joint possession as co-owner.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Further merely because Sreenivasa Rao and the appellants have paid taxes to the Corporation doesn't mean that the plaintiff was ousted from the joint possession.	ARG_RESPONDENT

He was always deemed to have been in constructive joint possession of the suit schedule property along with his brother and after his death, along with the appellants and hence he had valid right to enforce partition and seek his half share in the suit schedule property.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 17. The appellants have taken up a plea that the trial court had erred in drawing the presumption on Ex.P2 that it is an ancient document merely because there was no contrary evidence produced by them and as PW-1 had no personal knowledge, such presumption U/s 90 of the Evidence Act was not available.	RATIO
The learned counsel for the appellant had also submitted his arguments that the attesting witnesses of Ex.P2 were not examined and as such execution of Ex.P2 was not proved and as such the finding given by the lower court that Ex.P2 was a genuine document is not correct.	RATIO
He also submitted that at the best by virtue of the said transaction only the execution of the document can be presumed but not the contents of the document.	RATIO
Sec. 90 of the Evidence Act reads as follows : " Where any document, purporting or proved to be thirty years old, is produced from and custody which the court in the particular case considers proper, the court may presume that the signature and every other part of such document, which purports to be in the handwriting of any particular person, is in that person's handwriting, and, in the case of a document executed or attested, that it was duly executed and attested by the persons by whom it purports to be executed and attested "
 	RATIO
This provision authorizes the court that when any document which is 30 years old is produced before it from proper custody, then it may presume that the hand writing of any particular person, is in that person's hand writing and in the case of documents executed or attested that it was duly executed and attested by the persons by whom it purports to be executed and attested.	RATIO
By virtue of the said presumption there was no necessity for the plaintiff to have called upon the attesting witnesses of Ex.P2 sale deed.	RATIO
Moreover, it is not mandatory in law for the person producing a sale deed before court to examine the attesting witnesses.	RATIO
When the recitals in Ex.P2 are clear that Gunabiyamma in the capacity of the plaintiff and her brother Sreenivasa Rao, had purchased the suit schedule property and the persons who executed the said sale deed have not disputed execution of the sale deed, I am of the opinion that the lower court had rightly drawn presumption available U/s 90 of the Evidence Act and gave its finding.	RATIO
The defendants/appellants having failed to lead/adduce any evidence before the lower court though sufficient opportunity was given, have made desperate attempt by filing this appeal to set aside the impugned judgment.	RATIO
The lower court had considered all the material before it and also the pleas taken by the defendants had rightly decreed the suit of the plaintiff by holding that he is the joint owner of the suit schedule property and entitled for half share in it.	RATIO
Appellants have failed to point out that the finding given and the decree passed by the lower court has resulted in prejudice or hardship to them.	RATIO
On perusal of the entire material on record and the reasons assigned by the learned trial judge in the impugned judgment in reaching the conclusion, I find that the decree so passed is not perverse, illegal or opposed to law and hence I am of the opinion that the interference of this court is not necessary.	RATIO
Accordingly I answer point for consideration in the Negative.	RATIO

 POINT NO.2: 18.	RATIO
By virtue of the above discussion, reasons stated and finding given to point No.1, the following is made; :: O R D E R ::	RPC
Regular Appeal filed by the appellants under Or.41 Rule.27 of CPC is dismissed.	RPC
Consequently	RPC
the judgment and decree passed by the II Addl.	RPC
Senior	RPC
Civil        Judge,	RPC
Mysuru         in O.S.No.406/2009	RPC
     dated          26th September 2013 is hereby confirmed.	RPC

 No order as to costs.	RPC

 Office is directed to send back L.C.R to the trial court along with copy of judgment.	RPC

 (Dictated to the Judgment writer, transcript corrected and then pronounced by in the Open Court on this the 26th day of October 2015).	RPC

 (C.CHANDRASEKHAR), VII Addl. District Judge, Mysuru.	NONE

 :: O R D E R ::	NONE
Regular Appeal filed by the appellants under Or.41 Rule.27 of CPC is dismissed.	NONE
Consequently	NONE
the judgment and decree passed by the II Addl.	NONE
Senior Civil  Judge,    Mysuru	NONE
in O.S.No.406/2009  dated        26th September 2013 is hereby confirmed.	NONE

 No order as to costs.	NONE

 Office is directed to send back L.C.R to the trial court along with copy of judgment.	NONE

 (C.CHANDRASEKHAR), VII Addl. District Judge, Mysuru	NONE
