IN THE COURT OF SUB-DIVISIONAL JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE;
                      BONAI, DISTRICT-SUNDARGARH

Present: Sri Bimal Raul, LL.M.
                 S.D.J.M.,Bonai

G.R. Case No. 552 of 2017
       TR. No.520 of 2018

Date of argument- 13.08.2018
Date of judgment- 14.08.2018

S T A T E	PREAMBLE
....Prosecution
                                       -versus-  ... Accused

Kalindri Patra, aged about 46 years,
S/O- Nilamani Patra
Village -Alekhapur,
Police Station- Bonai
District-Sundargarh, State-Odisha

Appearances:                 : Sri P.S. Mishra, , Sri L.M. Behera
        For the Prosecution  and Smt. Madhumita Amatya,

A.P.Ps,Bonai

For the Defence              : Sri A.M. Mohanty, SDC, Bonai

                 J U D G M E N T	PREAMBLE

Under section 341/323/294/506 IPC The above named accused-utp person stands prosecuted for the offences punishable u/s 341/323/294/506 of the Indian Penal Code (for short the I.P.C).	FAC

 2. Stated briefly the case of the prosecution is that on dated 02.10.2017 the informant Smt. Pataphula Patra, aged about 56 years, w/o- Late Ghasia Patra of village Alekhapur, under Bonai police limits, District-Sundargarh lodged the written first information report (for short the F.I.R) at Bonai Police Station stating that on 11.09.2017 the accused, who is her co-villager assaulted her by a bamboo lathi for which she sustains fracture in her hand.	FAC
After treatment in the hospital while she was returning home the accused threatened to kill her and also scolded her uttering obscene words.	FAC
It is her further case that the accused threatened to behead her and carry her head to the police station.	FAC
It is her further case that the accused was not allowing her to stay in her house or in any other co- villager's house.	FAC
It is further alleged that he also threatened the Gramarakhi who was sent to call him.	FAC
Again such factual circumstances she lodged FIR on 02.10.2017.	FAC
On receiving the written F.I.R of the informant, the Inspector-In-Charge (for short the IIC) registered Bonai P.S.
 Case No. 130 of 2017 Dtd.02.10.2017 for alleged commission of the offence u/s 341/325/294/506 IPC and directed the then Assistant Sub-Inspector Sri S.B. Pati for investigation of the matter.	FAC
On completion of investigation the charge sheet no.120 Dtd.26.11.2017 was submitted against the accused Kalindri Patra for commission of the offence u/s 341/323/294/506 IPC.	FAC
Hence, the trial.	FAC
 The accused-utp is facing his trial as under trial prisoners (for short the utp) as he has not furnished bail bond for his release since 09.02.2018.	FAC

 3. The plea of the defence is one of complete denial and false implication of the accused-utp in this case.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 4. The points for determination in this case are as follows: (i) Whether on dated 11.09.2017 in Alekhapur the accused-utp wrongfully restrained the informant?
 (ii) Whether the accused-utp on the above said date and place voluntarily caused hurt to the informant?	ISSUE

 (iii) Whether the accused-utp on the above stated date and thereafter uttered obscene words in or near a public place, namely the above stated place, to the annoyance of the informant?	ISSUE
and (iv) Whether the accused-utp on the above stated dates and place criminally intimidated the informant with fatal consequence with intent to cause alarm to her?	ISSUE

 5. In order to prove its case, the prosecution has examined eight witnesses on its behalf.	ANALYSIS
PW 1 is the informant-victim of this case.	ANALYSIS
PW 2 is a co-villager of the informant.	ANALYSIS
PW 3 is an independent witness.	ANALYSIS
PW 4 is an eyewitness.	ANALYSIS
PWs 5 and 6 are other independent witnesses.	ANALYSIS
PW 7 is the Medical Officer who examined the informant as injured.	ANALYSIS
PW 8 is the Investigating Officer in this case.	ANALYSIS
The prosecution has adduced no further evidence in this case.	ANALYSIS
No evidence has been adduced on behalf of the accused-utp.	ANALYSIS

 6. In her evidence PW 1 who is the informant has not specifically stated the date of occurrence.	ANALYSIS
But she has stated that on a certain day at about 07:00 AM in her house the incident took place about 4-5 months before the day she deposed in the court i.e. 20th March, 2018.	ANALYSIS
Interestingly, she has stated that prior to that incident she was abused in obscene words on certain night by the accused-utp.	ANALYSIS
But the date of that incident has also not been stated by her.	ANALYSIS
It is stated by her that in the morning the accused-utp assaulted her by a bamboo stick so that he sustained injury on her person.	ANALYSIS
She has stated further that her left hand got fractured.	ANALYSIS

It is stated by her that the accused-utp threatened to kill her.	ANALYSIS

She has further stated that she was taken to hospital by one Ananda and that while she was returning home after treatment the accused-utp again scolded her and threatened her with fatal consequence.	ANALYSIS
It is stated by her that out of fear she went to her brother's house and some days after she lodged FIR marked as Ext.1 bearing her signature Ext.1/1.	ANALYSIS
She has stated to have put her signature in the injury report vide Ext.2.	ANALYSIS
It is clear from her cross examination that she had not reported about any earlier incident, but she reported this time as she got fractured.	ANALYSIS
It is further stated by her that one Behera, a co- villager, scribed the FIR and read over and explained its content to her.	ANALYSIS

 7. In evidence PW 2 has only sated that she was told by the informant about the incident that she was assaulted and intimidated with fatal consequence.	ANALYSIS
It is stated by him that he took the informant to hospital.	ANALYSIS
PW 3 has stated that 4-5 months before 20th March, 2018 the day he deposed in the court the incident took place.	ANALYSIS
Similarly, PW 4 has dated the incident back to 4-5 months before 20th March, 2018.	ANALYSIS
He has stated that the incident took place in front of the house of the informant.	ANALYSIS
He has further stated the accused-utp was chasing and assaulting her simultaneously.	ANALYSIS
It is stated by him that because of assault by bamboo stick the informant sustained injury on her hand.	ANALYSIS
He has also stated affirmatively about the fatal threatening given by the accused-utp to her.	ANALYSIS
However, he has stated that during the incident the informant being chased ran towards the house of Gramarakhi in order to escape from the accused-utp's assault.	ANALYSIS
It is further stated by him that on her returned from hospital she was further threatened by the accused-utp.	ANALYSIS
PWs 5 and 6 have stated nothing about the incident.	ANALYSIS

 8. In evidence PW 7 who was then working as Senior Pediatric Specialist at Sub Divisional Hospital, Bonai has confirmed that on 11.09.2017 she examined the informant injured as an outdoor patient and found one swelling of size 4 CM X 4CM.	ANALYSIS
It is stated by her that on police requisition dtd.03.10.2017 she has given her opinion vide Ext.2/1 bearing her signature Ext.2/2 as per the information available from the causality register of the hospital.	ANALYSIS
She has not ruled out the probability of such injury being caused by fall on rough and hard surface.	ANALYSIS

 9. In evidence PW 8 the Investigating Officer who was working as Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police at the Bonai police station on 02.10.2017 has deposed that the then Inspector -In- Charge of the P.S registered Bonai P.S Case No.130 Dtd.02.10.2017 and directed him to investigate into the matter under his endorsement in the FIR vide Ext.1/2 for alleged commission of the offence u/s 341/325/294/506 IPC.	ANALYSIS
It is further stated by him that during investigation he has examined the complainant and other witnesses and visited the alleged place of occurrence in the village Alekhapur, which is in particular near an electric substation in the mid part of the village.	ANALYSIS
He has drawn a sketch map of the site vide Ext.3 bearing his signature Ext.3/1.	ANALYSIS
He has confirmed to have issued the injury requisition to the injured informant vide Ext.2/3 bearing his signature Ex.2/4.	ANALYSIS
Confirming the arrest of the accused-utp and the receipt of the injury opinion report from the Medical Officer Dr. Jyoshna Lugun, he has confirmed to have submitted charge sheet against the accused-utp for alleged commission offence u/s 341/323/294/506 IPC.	ANALYSIS

 10. In the argument the learned counsel has brought to the notice of the court that prior hostility between the informant and the accused-utp is admitted by the informant.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Further, the Investigating Officer has also confirmed that there was no good relationship between the parties prior to the occurrence.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is clear from the evidence of the informant that on earlier occasions she has not reported any incident to the police.	ARG_RESPONDENT
She has specifically admitted that as she sustains fractured in her hand, she reported the matter to the police.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Resulting in initiations of the present case against such background the prosecution would have adduced evidence as to the exact time of occurrence.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is contended for the accused-utp that none of the prosecution witnesses have stated about the exact time of the occurrence.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Even if the informant claims that she was assaulted in the morning, she has not specifically stated the date on which she was so assaulted.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Rather, she has only stated that the incident took place about 4-5 months before on a certain day about 07: 00AM in her house.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Learned counsel has brought to the notice of the court that the FIR reveals that on 11.09.2017 the informant was assaulted for which she sustained fracture in her hand.	ARG_RESPONDENT
But no exact time has been mentioned in the FIR.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Nor does the FIR reveal on which hand she sustained fracture.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Only in her evidence she has stated she sustained fracture on her left hand.	ARG_RESPONDENT
From evidence of the Medical Officer it is clear that on 11.09.2017 the informant was treated only for swelling of size 4 C.M. X 4.CM on her left wrist.	ANALYSIS

Further the Medical Officer's evidence provides that the injury was simple and might have been caused by blunt object about 22 days before the day on which Medical Officer supplied the injury opinion report on the requisition of the police.	ANALYSIS
The learned counsel has therefore contended that the medical evidence does not corroborate the version of the informant as to any fracture sustained by her.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is therefore contended that the case of the informant cannot be believed.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 11. It is brought to the notice of the court that the informant has admitted that after the occurrence she went to her brother's house and about 16-17 days after the incident she preferred to lodge the FIR.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Medical evidence clears that the injured was examined 22 days before the day injury requisition was issued in favour of the informant.	ARG_RESPONDENT
From the evidence of the Investigating Officer it is clear that the FIR was lodged on 02.10.2017 and on that day the Investigating Officer visited the spot and thereafter issued injury requisition in favour of the injured.	ARG_RESPONDENT
By the time injury requisition was issued, the injured had already undergone treatment.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is therefore surprising that about 20 days after the incident, the Investigating Officer still issued injury requisition to the hospital reflecting that the informant sustained fracture on her hand without specifying right or left.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is therefore contended that these facts together generate doubt over the credibility of prosecution case and suspicion over the fact as to why the informant lodged FIR after expiry of more than 20 days from the date of incident.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is contended that such long delay in lodging FIR remains unexplained.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Mere allegation that the accused-utp threatened her with fatal consequences cannot be sufficient ground to explain such a long delay in lodging the FIR.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The learned counsel has further contended that no specific obscene word has been mentioned in the FIR.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Nor has the informant stated about any obscene words uttered by the accused-utp to her annoyance.	ARG_RESPONDENT
No other witness including the eyewitness PW 4 has stated about any such specific obscene words uttered by the accused-utp in or near a public place to the annoyance of informant and others.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The learned counsel has there contented that the case of prosecution seems to be fabricated one with a view to harassing the accused-utp for previous hostility.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 12. On careful perusal of the FIR it can be found that the informant has not stated the specific place where she was assaulted.	ANALYSIS
Only in her evidence she has stated that the incident had taken place in her house.	ANALYSIS
It is therefore contended that the sketch map of the spot of occurrence prepared by the Investigating Officer cannot be relied on as the same reflects that the incident took place in the middle of the village Alekhapur near the electric substation.	ANALYSIS
Learned counsel has therefore contended that such inconsistency and omission as to the place of occurrence also adversely impacts the credibility of prosecution case.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Viewed from a different perspective this aspect of investigation also points towards impropriety of investigation.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 13. In evidence the Investigating Officer has stated not to have seized any thenga, let alone the bamboo thenga.	ANALYSIS
Further, the Investigating Officer has not stated if the complaint had scribed the FIR.	ANALYSIS
In evidence the informant has stated that the FIR was scribed by one Behera of her village.	ANALYSIS
If this be so, it is not known as to why she has not been able to state the name of the scribe of the FIR.	ANALYSIS
Even her claim that she was read over and explaining to the content cannot be reliable since no endorsement is available in the FIR to that effect.	ANALYSIS
Learned counsel has therefore contended that this aspect of the case also throws a ray of suspicion over the genuineness of prosecution case.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The learned counsel has therefore contended that no material is available as to any wrongfully restraint, uttering of obscene words, criminally intimidation or hurt to the informant.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The learned counsel has therefore contended that overall the case is doubtful and it seems that the informant brought this case against the accused-utp only to harass her for certain ulterior motive.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 14. On the contrary the Learned APPs have contended that the prosecution has proved its case beyond any reasonably doubt through the evidence of the informant, PW 4 the sole eyewitness, Medical Officer and the Investigating Officer.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is therefore contended that there is sufficient material on record to hold the accused-utp liable for the offence u/s 341/323/294/506 IPC.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is further contended that the accused- utp who has been involved in another PS case for commission of offence u/s 457/427/294/323/307 IPC should be punished adequately, otherwise he cannot be checked from committing further offence.	ARG_PETITIONER

 15. I have perused the evidence available on the record.	ANALYSIS
I have given advertence to the contentions raised on behalf of the parties.	ANALYSIS
On careful consideration of the evidence on record I am of the opinion of that the contentions raised on behalf of the accused-utp need to be accepted in the factual circumstances of this case.	ANALYSIS
I therefore respectfully subscribe to the contentions of the learned counsel.	ANALYSIS
Added to this, in the FIR it is alleged that the informant was threatened with fatal consequence when she returned home after treatment from the hospital.	ANALYSIS
In evidence she has stated that out of fear for the threatening imparted to her she went to the brother's house and some days after, as discussed above, she lodged FIR.	ANALYSIS
PW 2 has also stated that the accused-utp threatened the informant for which he took her brother's house.	ANALYSIS
PW 4 who is claimed as the eyewitness has stated that the accused-utp threatened the informant on the very day of occurrence and also on the day when she returned from home after treatment in the hospital.	ANALYSIS

But FIR does not reveal any threatening prescribed by the accused-utp on 11.09.2017.	ANALYSIS
Against such factual background, it is relevant to lay down here that in the FIR the informant has alleged that she was not being allowed to stay either in her house or in any other house.	ANALYSIS
It can be stated that if she was so threatened time and again as to why she did not prefer to lodge any FIR immediately after the incident on 11.09.2017 or on the day she returned from hospital after treatment.	ANALYSIS
In my considered opinion these facts lead to a conclusion that there was no reason as to why the informant may have been alarmed by any threatening from the side of the accused-utp when she only lodged the FIR 20 days after the incident.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, the ingredients necessary for constituting criminal intimidation is not satisfied in this case.	ANALYSIS
In my considered opinion no conclusion can be drawn as to any criminal intimidation committed by the accused.	RATIO
It is settled in law that the prosecution must prove its case beyond all reasonable doubt.	RATIO

But in the present case in view of the foregoing discussion the case is quite doubtful.	RATIO
As a result the points for determination stand decided in the negative.	RATIO

 16. In the result, it is proper to hold that the prosecution has failed to prove its case beyond any reasonable doubt against the accused-utp for the offence u/s 341/323/294/506 IPC.	RATIO

Hence, I hold the accused-utp not guilty of the offence punishable u/s 341/323/294/506 IPC and acquit them therefrom under Section 248(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	RPC

 No order for disposal of property since no property has been seized in this case.	RPC
Enter this case as mistake of fact for statistical purpose.	RPC

 S.D.J.M., Bonai Dt 14-08-18	NONE
Pronounced by me in the open court on this the 14th day of August, 2018 under my hand and seal of the court in the presence of the accused-utp acquitted.
        Typed electronically to my dictation and corrected by me.	NONE
S.D.J.M., Bonai Dt 14-08-18	NONE
APPENDIX 1.	NONE
List of Prosecution Witnesses PW 1-  Pataphula Patra PW 2-  Sambaru Patra PW 3-  Maheswar Patra PW 4-  Brusa Bhanu Patra PW 5-  Keshab Chandra Surya PW 6-  Agasti Patra PW 7-  Dr. Jyoshna Lugun PW 8-  Sashi Bhusan Pati 2.	NONE
List of Defence Witnesses None	NONE
3. List of Prosecution Exhibits Ext-1  F.I.R.
 Ext.1/1 Signature of PW 1 on F.I.R.
 Ext.1/2 Signature with endorsement of IIC on FIR Ext.2  Signature of PW 1on injury report Ext.2/1 Injury report Ext.2/2 Signature of PW 7 on injury report Ext.2/3 Injury requisition Ext.2/4 Signature of P.W.8 on Injury requisition Ext.3  	NONE
Sketch map of spot Ext.3/1 Signature of P.W.8 on sketch map 4. List of Defence Exhibits Nil S.D.J.M., Bonai Dt 14-08-18 ***	NONE
