IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-DIVISIONAL JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
                                        SUNDARGARH.

    Present:

              	PREAMBLE
Miss Chinmayee Panda, B.A.LL.B.(Hons.)
              S.D.J.M.,Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE
Date of Argument: - 28.08.2018
              Date of Judgment: - 30.08.2018	PREAMBLE


              2(a)cc Case No.186/2018
              Trial No. 436/2018

              State

              Vrs.

            	PREAMBLE
Bilasini Sunani, aged about 48 years,
            W	PREAMBLE
/o- Alekha Sunani, resident of
    vill- Rabandihi, Ps-Dharuadihi, Dist-Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE
...Accused

Counsel for the State....... Ld. A.P.P, Sundargarh.
Counsel for the defence.....Sri G. Hati & associates.

    Status of the accused :On bail

              Offence U/s.52 (a)(i) Odisha Excise Act

              J U D G M E N T
 1.  	PREAMBLE
The accused stands charged for allegedly committing offence u/s 52(a) (i) of Odisha Excise Act (hereinafter referred to as O Excise Act) .	FAC

 2.  The case of the prosecution as unfolded from the PR is that on 11.06.2018 at about 08.30 AM while the then SI of Excise, Sadar Charge, Sundargarh, Shri Hira Dalapati was performing patrolling duty along with his staff at Rabandihi area, on receipt of reliable information he detained the accused.	FAC
After observing all legal formalities of search, he searched the accused and recovered one plastic jarkin containing some liquid substance which on measurement was found to be 12 liters .	FAC
The SI of Excise tested the contents of the plastic jarkin by blue litmus paper and it turned into red.	FAC
He also conducted hydrometer test of the same.	FAC
From such tests, from the color and odor of the liquid and from his departmental experience and distillery training, he confirmed the same to be nothing but ID liquor.	FAC
Hence, he seized the same in presence of witnesses and prepared seizure list.	FAC

 On the basis of the P.R. submitted by the I.O., cognizance was taken and subsequently trial commenced against the accused for allegedly committing offence under section 52(a)(i) of Bihar and Orissa Excise Act.	FAC

Hence, this case.	FAC
3. The plea of defence is one of denial and false implication .	FAC
4. Points for determination : (i) Whether on 11.06.2018 at about 08.30 AM at Rabandihi area    the Excise officials seized 12 liters of ID liquor from exclusive and conscious possession of the accused ?
 (ii) Whether the seized articles was nothing but ID liquor ?	ISSUE

 5. In order to substantiate its case prosecution has examined as many as three witnesses out of whom P.W.2, is the SI of Excise and P.W.3 is the Excise staff who had accompanied P.W.2 during the alleged patrolling duty and PW 1 is an independent seizure witness .	FAC
On the other hand the defence has preferred not to examine any witness on behalf of the accused .	FAC

 6.  In order to establish seizure, P.W.2 has deposed that on 11.06.2018 at about 08.30 AM while he was conducting patrolling duty along with his staff at Rabandihi area, on receipt of reliable information he detained the accused.	FAC
And after observing all legal formalities of search, he searched the accused and recovered one plastic jarkin containing some liquid substance which on measurement was found to be 12 liters.	FAC
As per his evidence he conducted blue litmus paper test and hydrometer test of the liquid and after being confirmed about the nature of the liquid to be ID liquor, he seized the same from the possession of the accused and prepared seizure list vide Ext.1.
 P.W.3 has also deposed in the same light as that of P.W.2.	FAC
So far as the independent seizure witness is concerned he has stated that on 11.06.2018 at about 08:00 AM Excise officials seized one plastic jarkin containing 12 liters of ID liquor from the accused but during course of cross examination he has stated that Excise officials called him and as per their direction he had put his signature .	FAC
It is further revealed from his cross examination that at the relevant time he was in his own house and the house of the accused is about half kilometers from his house, which is not within visible distance.	FAC
It is further revealed from the cross examination of PW.1 that by the time he reached the spot, there were 2 to 3 other persons on the spot apart from the accused.	FAC
In view of such statement of PW.1, his evidence regarding the seizure of contraband articles from the possession of the accused seems to be suspicious.	FAC

 During course of cross-examination P.W.2 has admitted that the seized liquor has not been produced in court during course of trial.	FAC
P.W.2 has further admitted that the spot was a busy place many people had gathered on the spot and he was not able to say the name of the witnesses present at the spot.	FAC
In the absence of independent corroboration to the evidence of the Excise personnel, the prosecution case is suspicious.	FAC
The seized article was also not produced before the Court during the course of trial.	FAC
Prosecution has also not adduced any evidence that the accused had dominion or control over the seized article.	FAC
In view of the above discussion, the fact that the seized article was recovered from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused becomes doubtful.	ANALYSIS
Hence, it is concluded that prosecution has failed to prove the factum of seizure from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused beyond all the reasonable doubts.	ANALYSIS
7.  So far as the nature of seized article is concerned P.W.2 has stated that he conducted blue litmus and hydrometer test of the liquid and from such test as well as from his Departmental experience and distillery training and the colour and odor of the liquid he confirmed the same to be nothing but ID liquor.	ANALYSIS
During course of argument	ANALYSIS
, learned APP strenuously argued that as per Sec. 53 of Odisha Excise act, 2008 in case of an offence u/s 52 of the Act, if it is established by chemical analysis or by adducing evidence of trained Excise Officer or otherwise that the seized liquid , materials or other things are - (a) intoxicant or (b) still, utensils, implement or apparatus whatsoever for the manufacture of any intoxicant other than tari or (c) any material, which has undergone any process towards the manufacture of any intoxicant or from which an intoxicant has been manufactured, the Court shall presume that the seized liquid or materials or other things are recovered from the conscious possession of the accused unless and until the contrary is proved.	ANALYSIS
The learned APP argued that as the SI of Excise has done the tests required to ascertain the nature of liquor and as from such tests and from his departmental experience and distillery training, he has opined the same to be nothing but ID liquor, as per the presumption provided u/s 53 of the Odisha Excise Act, it shall be presumed that the contraband was seized from the conscious possession of the accused and hence, the accused is liable to be held guilty.
                 	ARG_PETITIONER
Law is well settled that chemical test is the surest test of I.D liquor.	ANALYSIS
Where chemical test has not been done and other tests like blue litmus paper and hydrometer test etc has been done,the burden lies on the prosecution to establish that the officer is specially trained and has long departmental experience so that his evidence can be accepted as expert opinion and can substitute chemical test.	ANALYSIS
In this context, it is pertinent to reflect the Explanation appended to Sec. 53 of the Odisha Excise Act, 2008 , which provides as follows: Explanation- " Trained Excise Officer" shall mean an officer who has under gone distillery training and obtained a certificate from the concerned Superintendent of Excise.	STA

 But in the instant case, there is nothing in the evidence of P.W.2 to reveal that he had under gone distillery training.	ANALYSIS
Further, there is also no specific experience and distillery training certificate granted by the Supt. Of Excise in favour of P.W.2.	ANALYSIS
In absence of any chemical test so also any document to prove that the S.I can be regarded as expert, it is not safe to rely on the testimony of P.W.2.	ANALYSIS
In view of the above discussion, the allegation that the seized article is nothing but I.D liquor comes under cloud.	ANALYSIS
Hence, it can be safely concluded that prosecution has failed to prove that the seized article is I.D liquor beyond all reasonable doubts.	RATIO
Accordingly, when the prosecution has failed to establish that the contraband is nothing but ID liquor, there is no occasion for raising of presumption against the accused as per Sec. 53 of the Odisha Excise Act.	RATIO
More over, as discussed in paragraph 6 , the prosecution has failed to establish the seizure of contraband from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	RATIO

 8.  In the present case after analyzing the evidence on record, I find it fair enough to acquit the accused on the ground that prosecution has miserably failed to prove the occurrence itself.	RATIO

 In the result I hold the accused not guilty of offence u/s 52(a)(i) of Odisha Excise Act and is acquitted therefrom as per the provision of section 248(1) of Cr.P.C.	RPC
The accused be set at liberty forthwith and be discharged from her bail bond so far as this case is concerned .	RPC
9.       	RPC
The seized articles be destroyed after four months of expiry of the appeal period in case of no appeal and in case of any appeal as per the order of the Appellate Court.	RPC
Enter this case as mistake of fact for statistical purpose .	RPC

 S.D.J.M.,Sundargarh.	NONE

 Transcript is typed out to my dictation, corrected by me and judgment is pronounced in the open court under my signature and seal on this the 30th day of August, 2018.	NONE

 S.D.J.M.,Sundargarh.	NONE
LIST OF WITNESSES EXAMINED FOR THE PROSECUTION: P.W. 1   Kumuduni Dehury P.W. 2   Hira Dalpati P.W. 3   Soudamini Banchhur LIST OF WITNESSES EXAMINED FOR THE DEFENCE:	NONE
Nil LIST OF EXHIBITS MARKED ON BEHALF OF THE PROSECUTION: Ext. 1   Seizure list Ext.1/1  Signature of P.W.1 Ext.1/2  Signature of P.W.2 Ext.1/3  Tested blue litmus paper Ext.1/4  Signature of PW.3 Ext.2    	NONE
spot map Ext.2/1  Signature of P.W.2 Ext.2/2	NONE
Signature of PW.3	NONE
LIST OF EXHIBITS MARKED ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENCE : Nil.	NONE
LIST OF M.O. MARKED ON BEHALF OF THE PROSECUTION.	NONE

 Nil.	NONE
LIST OF M.O. MARKED ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENCE.	NONE

 Nil.	NONE

 S.D.J.M.,Sundargarh.	NONE
