PETITIONER:
STATE (DELHI ADMN.)

Vs.

RESPONDENT:
JAGJIT SINGH

DATE OF JUDGMENT15/12/1988

BENCH:
RAY, B.C. (J)	PREAMBLE

BENCH:
RAY, B.C. (J)
OJHA, N.D. (J)

CITATION:

1989 AIR 598         1988 SCR Supl. (3)1093

1989 SCC Supl. (2) 770 JT 1988 (4) 715

1988 SCALE (2)1578

ACT:
     Criminal Procedure Code, 1973: Section 306 Person

accepting tender of pardon- To be examined as witness in
Court of Magistrate taking cognizance of offence as well as
trial Court- Person resiling from earlier statement-
Liability to be examined not absolved.	PREAMBLE


HEADNOTE:
       Many explosions took place in May 1985 in Delhi and

Uttar Pradesh killing many persons.	PREAMBLE
Consequently, a number
of cases were registered.	PREAMBLE
In Delhi, FIR No. 238 of 1985 was
registered wherein the respondent and another accused turned
approvers and were granted pardon under section 306 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.	PREAMBLE
Both these approvers
however resiled from their statements in the Court of the
	PREAMBLE
Committing Magistrate	PREAMBLE
.

       Four Criminal cases pending in Meerut were later
transferred by the Supreme Court to the Court of the Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate, Delhi, to be tried along with the
case arising out of FIR No. 238 of 1985.	PREAMBLE


       In the supplementary committal proceedings in case FIR
No. 238 of 1985, the respondent objected to his being
	PREAMBLE
summoned as an approver on the ground inter alia that he
could not be examined as a witness in the case because he
was figuring as an accused person in the other four cases on
the same facts and circumstances, which were being jointly
tried.	PREAMBLE
The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate dismissed the
application.	PREAMBLE
The High Court allowed the respondent's
revision petition and directed the State not to examine the
respondent as an approver in case F.I.R. No. 238 of 1985.

       	PREAMBLE
In the appeal before this Court, it was inter alia
contended that the prosecution could not examine the
respondent as a witness because he had cast away the pardon
granted to him.	PREAMBLE


       Allowing the appeal,
       HELD: 1.	PREAMBLE
The pardon granted to the respondent was
accepted by him and he was examined as a prosecution witness
in the Court of the Committing Magistrate, though he resiled
from his statement there.	PREAMBLE
[1097C]

                                                                                         PG NO 1093
                                                                                         PG NO. 1094	PREAMBLE
2. It is a mandate of the provisions of the Criminal
Procedure Code to the prosecution to examine the approver to
whom pardon had been granted as a witness both in the
Committing Court as well as in the trial court.	PREAMBLE
[1097E]

       3. Section 306 clearly enjoins that the approver who was
granted pardon had to comply with the condition of making a
full and true disclosure of the whole of the circumstances
within his knowledge relative to the offencc and to every
other concerned whether as principal or abettor, in the
commission thereof.	PREAMBLE
It is because of this mandate that the
State cannot withdraw the pardon from the approver nor the
approver can cast away the pardon granted to him, till he is
examined as a witness by the prosecution both in the
Committing Court as well as in the trial court.	PREAMBLE
[1097H;
1098A-B]

       4.	PREAMBLE
The respondent who has been granted pardon in case
F.I.R. No. 238 of 1985 has to be examined by the prosecution
in the trial court no matter that he has resiled from his
earlier statement and tried to conceal what was within his
knowledge with regard to the offence in question.	PREAMBLE
[1100D]

       In re: Arusami Goundan, AIR 1959 Mad. 274 and Emperor v.
Shandino Bhaniperto, AIR 1940 (Sind) 114 referred to.	PREAMBLE


       5.	PREAMBLE
Once an accused is granted pardon under section 306,
he ceases to be an accused and becomes a witness for the
prosecution.	PREAMBLE
So long as the prosecution does not certify
that he has failed to make a full and true disclosure of the
whole of the circumstance within his knowledge relating to
the offence, he continues to be a witness and the
prosecution is under obligation to examine him as a witness
both in the Committing Court as well as in the trial court.	PREAMBLE

[1099H; 1100A-B]

       A.J. Peiris v. State of Madras, AIR 1954 (SC) 616
referred to.	PREAMBLE
6. A witness is legally bound to answer any question
which is relevant to the matter in issue even if the answer
to such question is likely to incriminate him directly or
indirectly.	PREAMBLE
[1100G]

       7.	PREAMBLE
The proviso to section 132 of the Indian Evidence Act
clearly protects a witness from being prosecuted on the
basis of the answers given by him in a criminal proceeding
which tend to incriminate him directly or indirectly.	PREAMBLE
[1101A]

                                                                                       PG NO. 1095
       8.	PREAMBLE
The apprehension of the respondent that his evidence
as approver will be used against him in the other four
criminal cases where he figures as an accused was without
any basis.	PREAMBLE
On the other hand, he was absolutely protected
from criminal prosecution on the basis of the evidence to be
given by him when examined by the prosecution as an
approver.	PREAMBLE
[1101B-C]

JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE

       CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 640 of 1988.	NONE
From the Judgment and Order dated 27.4.1987 of the Delhi High Court in Crl. Rev. No. 221 of 1986.	NONE

       B. Datta, Additional Solicitor General, Kitty Kumar Mangalam and Miss A. Subhashini for the Appellant.	NONE

       Hardev Singh and R.K. Agnihotri for the Respondent.	NONE
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RAY, J.	NONE
Special leave granted.	NONE
Heard learned counsel for the parties.	NONE
The prosecution case, in short, is that to create fear and terror to commit murder and to aggravate tense situation some persons hatched a conspiracy to massacre the general public by placing transistor bombs at public places and also by placing them in public transports as trains, buses etc.	FAC

Many explosions took place in May 1985 in Delhi and parts of Uttar Pradesh in consequence whereof many persons were killed in Delhi and some places in Uttar Pradesh.	FAC
Several cases were registered in different police stations of Aligarh, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Khekra etc.	FAC
In Delhi F.I.R.
No. 238 of 1985 was registered i.e. State v. Kartar Singh Narang etc. wherein all the accused persons named therein were arrested except one Gurdeep Singh Sehgal who was declared as a proclaimed offender.	FAC
The accused Jagjit Singh and Gurvinder Singh turned approvers and they were granted pardon under Section 308 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.	FAC
They were examined as P.W. 1 and P.W. 2 in the committal case proceeding in the court of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate on December 24, 1985.	FAC
Both these approvers resiled from their statements in the court of the Committing Magistrate.	FAC
The accused persons were committed to the Court of Sessions to stand their trial for offences under Sections 121, 121A, 153, 153A, 302 and 307 I.P.C. and sections 3, 5 and 6 of Explosives Substances Act.	FAC

 PG NO. 1096	FAC
On February 27, 1986, Surjit Kaur, another accused in the Transistor Bomb Case, against whom cases were pending in the Meerut, Ghaziabad and Aligarh Districts of U.P., moved an application under Section 406 of the Code of Criminal Procedure before this Court for transfer of criminal case pending in the court of Meerut to a court in Delhi.	FAC
This Court after hearing Counsel for the State of Uttar Pradesh has directed that criminal cases referred to at Serial Nos.
1, 2, 3 and 5 in paragraph 2 of the transfer petition stand transferred to the Court of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Delhi and shall be tried along with the case instituted in the Court of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Delhi arising out of F.I.R. No. 238 of 1985 of Police Station, Patel Nagar, New Delhi.	FAC
When the matter was taken up in the Court of Sessions, the respondent, Jagjit Singh, the approver moved an application that he cannot be examined as a witness as he had not accepted the pardon and did not support the prosecution version and he was forced to make a wrong statement by the police before the Metropolitan Magistrate.	FAC
The application was rejected by the Trial Judge after hearing the arguments of the parties on March 1, 1986.	RLC

       Against this order, a Criminal Revision Petition No. 92 of 1986 was filed by the respondent, Jagjit Singh in the High Court at Delhi.	FAC
This application was heard by Jagdish Chandra, J who dismissed the petition on August 12, 1986 holding that the mandate of the law requiring that the approver shall be examined both before the Committing Magistrate as well as during trial as a witness, is binding not only on the trial court and the prosecution but also on the approver as well.	FAC

       Thereafter, one of the accused person who was a proclaimed offender was arrested and a supplementary challan was filed in the Court of Metropolitan Magistrate, Delhi.	FAC
The respondent, Jagjit Singh was sought to be examined as an approver by the prosecution, in the said supplementary committal proceeding in F.I.R. No. 238 of 1985.	FAC
The respondent objected to his being summoned as an approver on the ground inter alia that he cannot be examined as a witness in a case though he is figuring as an accused person in other five cases on the same facts and circumstances which are being jointly tried.	FAC
The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Delhi dismissed the application by his order dated October 6, 1986.	RLC
Against this order the respondent Jagjit Singh filed Criminal Revision Petition No. 221 of 1986.	FAC
M.K. Chawla, J after hearing the parties allowed the Revision Petition and directed the State not to examine the respondent-approver as an approver in case F.I.R. No. 238 of 1985.	RLC

 PG NO. 1097	FAC
Aggrieved by this order this appeal by special leave has been filed by State.	FAC

       It has been urged that the statement recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was not made by the respondent, Jagjit Singh voluntarily but it was obtained under coercion by the police.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It has also been contended that he resiled from his statements in the court of the Committing Magistrate and he has not accepted the pardon granted to him by the Magistrate.	ARG_RESPONDENT
He should be arrayed as an accused in the case F.I.R. No. 238/85 and should be tried as an accused along with other accused in the said case.	ARG_RESPONDENT
This contention is not tenable in as much as the pardon granted to the respondent, Jagjit Singh was accepted by him and other approver, Gurvinder Singh who were examined as P.W. 1 and P.W. 2 in the court of the Committing Magistrate.	ANALYSIS
These approvers, of course, resiled from their statement in the court of the Committing Magistrate.	ANALYSIS
It has therefore, been submitted that the prosecution cannot examine him as a witness in the said case as he has cast away the pardon granted to him.	ARG_RESPONDENT
This submission, in our considered opinion, is not tenable in as much as sub-section (4) of Section 306 of Code of Criminal Procedure clearly enjoins that a person accepting a tender of pardon has to be examined as a witness in the court of the Magistrate taking cognizance of the offence and in the subsequent trial, if any.	ANALYSIS
It is therefore, a mandate of the provisions of the said Act to the prosecution to examine the approver to whom pardon has been granted as a witness both in the Committing Court as well as in the trial court	ANALYSIS
It does not matter	ANALYSIS
whether	ANALYSIS
the approver has resiled from his statement and has not made a full and true disclosure of whole of the circumstances within his knowledge relating to the offence so long as the Public Prosecutor does not certify that in his opinion the approver has either wilfully concealed anything essential or has given false evidence contrary to the condition on which the tender of pardon was made.	ANALYSIS

       It has been next contended that the grant of pardon is in the nature of a contract between the State granting the pardon on the one hand and the person accepting the pardon on the other hand.	ARG_RESPONDENT
As the State has the power to revoke the pardon at any time the approver has also got the reciprocal right to cast away the pardon granted to him.	ARG_RESPONDENT
This submission is also not tenable.	ANALYSIS
The power to grant pardon carries with it the right to impose a condition limiting the operation of such a pardon.	ANALYSIS
Hence a pardoning power can attach any condition, precedent or subsequent so long as it is not illegal, immoral or impossible of performance.	ANALYSIS

Section 306 clearly enjoins that the approver who was PG NO 1098 granted pardon had to comply with the condition of making a full and true disclosure of the whole of the circumstances within his knowledge relative to the offence and to every other concerned whether as principal or abettor, in the commission thereof.	ANALYSIS
It is because of this mandate, the State can not withdraw the pardon from the approver nor the approver can cast away the pardon granted to him till he is examined as a witness by the prosecution both in the Committing Court as well as in the trial court.	ANALYSIS
The approver may have resiled from the statement made before the Magistrate in the Committing Court and may not have complied with the condition on which pardon was granted to him, still the prosecution has to examine him as a witness in the trial court.	ANALYSIS
It is only when the Public Prosecutor certifies that the approver has not complied with the conditions on which the tender was made by wilfully concealing anything essential or by giving false evidence, he may be tried under section 308 of the Code of Criminal Procedure not only for the offence in respect of which pardon was granted but also in respect of other offences.	ANALYSIS
In these circumstances, the question of casting away the pardon granted to an approver and his claim not to be examined by the prosecution as a witness before the trial court is without any substance.	ANALYSIS
It has been submitted in this connection by citing a decision In re Arusami Goundan, AIR 1959 (Madras) 274 that the accomplice who has been tendered a pardon if at any stage either wilfully conceals material particulars or gives false evidence and thereby fails to comply with the conditions on which pardon was tendered to him and thereby incurs its forfeiture he should not be compelled by the prosecution to be examined as a witness before the trial court.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It has been observed even in the said case that the provisions of Section 337(2) of the old Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898) provide that the approver who has been tendered pardon must be examined both in the Committing Court and the Court of Sessions it has been held that: "The obligation to make a full and true disclosure would arise whenever the approver is lawfully called upon to give evidence touching the matter; it may be in the Committing court, or, it may be in he Sessions Court.	PRE_RELIED
But, the obligation to make a full and true disclosure rests on the approver at every stage at which he can be lawfully required to give evidence.	PRE_RELIED
If at any stage he either wilfully conceals material particulars or gives false evidence he would failed to comply with the conditions on which the pardon was tendered to him and thereby incurred its forfeiture.	PRE_RELIED
Neither as a matter of reason or logic, nor as a matter PG NO 1099 of statutory interpretation can it be said that S. 339(1) is dependent on or connected with S. 337(2) in the sense that the approver must be examined both in the Committing Court and the Sessions Court before it can be held that he has forfeited his pardon.	PRE_RELIED
It is sufficient if he fails to conform to the conditions on which the pardon has been granted to him at either stage."	PRE_RELIED
This decision has been considered in Emperor v. Shandino Dhaniparto, AIR 1940 (Sind) 114 wherein it has been held that: "When an accused after accepting pardon denies all knowledge of facts before the Committing Magistrate and the case is committed to Sessions Court the pardon cannot be forfeited before the accused is examined in the Sessions Court.	PRE_RELIED
Once a pardon is tendered and accepted, S. 337(2) renders it obligatory for the prosecution to examine the approver both in the Committing Magistrate s Court and in the Sessions Court should the case be committed.	PRE_RELIED
Failure of the prosecution to examine the approver in the Sessions Court vitiates the trial."	PRE_RELIED

 The provisions of Sections 337 and 339 of the old Code of Criminal Procedure are almost in identical terms with the provisions of Sections 306 and 308 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.	ANALYSIS
This submission on a plain reading of these sections, cannot be sustained.	ANALYSIS

       It has been urged with great vehemence that the appellant, Jagjit Singh was granted pardon with regard to case F.I.R. No. 238 of 1985 whereas his name appears as an accused in the other four cases which have been directed to be tried along with above case wherein the facts are almost similar.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The appellant-approver in such circumstances should not be examined by the prosecution as a witness in as much as his evidence may be used in the other criminal cases wherein he figures as an accused.	ARG_RESPONDENT
This is against the protection given by Article 2(3) of the Constitution of India.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It has, therefore, been submitted that the order dated April 27, 1987 passed in Revision Petition No. 221 of 1986 directing the State not to examine the approver as a witness should not be set aside.	ARG_RESPONDENT
This contention is also not tenable in as much as once an accused is granted pardon under section 306 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, he ceases to be an accused and becomes a witness for the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
The only condition imposed by the provisions of the Act is that the approver must make a full and true disclosure of the whole of the circumstances within his PG NO 1100 knowledge relating to the offence and to every other concerned, whether as principal or abettor, in the commission thereof.	ANALYSIS
So long as the Prosecution does not certify that he has failed to do so he continues to be a witness and the prosecution is under obligation to examine him as a witness both in the Committing Court as well as in the trial court.	ANALYSIS
This has been made very clear by this Court in the case of A.J. Peiris v. State of Madras, AIR 1954(SC) 616 wherein it has been observed that: ".....We think that the moment the pardon was tendered to the accused he must be presumed to have been discharged whereupon he ceased to be an accused and became a witness."	PRE_RELIED

 We have already held hereinbefore that sub-section 4 of Section 306 casts an obligation on the prosecution to examine the approver both in the Committing Court as well as in the trial court.	ANALYSIS
So the appellant who has been granted pardon in case F.I.R. No. 238/85 has to be examined by the prosecution in the trial court no matter that he has resiled from his earlier statement and tried to conceal what was within his knowledge with regard to the offence in question.	ANALYSIS

It will be pertinent to mention here Section 132 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 which lays down that: "A witness shall not be excused from answering any question as to any matter relevant to the matter in issue in any suit or in any civil or criminal proceedings, upon the ground that the answer to such question will criminate, or may tend directly or indirectly to criminate, such witness, or that it will expose, or tend directly or indirectly to expose, such witness to a penalty or forfeiture of any kind.	STA
Proviso-	STA
Provided that no such answer, which a witness shall be compelled to give, shall subject him to any arrest or prosecution, or be against him in any criminal proceeding, except a prosecution for giving false evidence by such answer.	STA

 Therefore, a witness is legally bound to answer any question which is relevant to the matter in issue even if the answer to such question is likely to criminate him directly or indirectly.	ANALYSIS
Proviso to Section 132 expressly provides that such answer which a witness is compelled to give shall not subject him to any arrest or prosecution PG NO 1101 nor the same can be proved against him in any criminal proceeding except a prosecution for giving false evidence by such answer.	ANALYSIS
The provisions of proviso to Section 132 of the Indian Evidence Act clearly protect a witness from being prosecuted on the basis of the answers given by him in a criminal proceeding which tend to criminate him directly or indirectly.	ANALYSIS
In view of this provision, the apprehension of the respondent that his evidence as approver will be used against him in the other four criminal cases where he figures as an accused is without any basis.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, he is absolutely protected from criminal prosecution on the basis of the evidence to be given by him when examined by the prosecution as an approver in the said case.	ANALYSIS

 This submission of the respondent is, therefore, not tenable.	ANALYSIS
It is pertinent to refer in this connection the decision of this Court in Laxmipat Choraria and Ors. v.
 State of Maharashtra.	PRE_RELIED
[1968] 2 SCR 626 wherein it has been observed by Hidayatullah, J as he then was that: "....... Under s. 132 a witness shall not be excused from answering any question as to any matter relevant to the matter in issue in any criminal proceeding (among others) upon the ground that the answer to such question will incriminate or may tend directly or indirectly to expose him to a penalty or forfeiture of any kind.	PRE_RELIED
The safeguard to this compulsion is that no such answer which the witness is compelled to give exposes him to any arrest or prosecution or can ii be prove i against him in any criminal proceeding except a prosecution for giving false evidence by such answer."	PRE_RELIED

 So Section 132 of the Evidence Act sufficiently protects him since his testimony does not go against him.	RATIO

 For the reasons aforesaid, the appeal is allowed.	RPC
The judgment and order dated April 27, 1987 passed in Revision Petition No. 221 of 1986 is hereby set aside.	RPC

 R.S.S.	NONE
               Appeal allowed.	RPC
