IN THE COURT OF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE FIRST CLASS,
                                 ROURKELA.

           Present: Sri P.K. Sethi, LL.M.,
                            J.M.F.C., Rourkela.	PREAMBLE
Dated this the 25th day of May, 2015

2(a)CC No. 1171 of 2002
  Trial No. 814 of 2013

STATE	PREAMBLE
............	PREAMBLE
Prosecution

       -VERSUS -

Mariyam Majhi, aged about 42 yrs.	PREAMBLE

W/o- Samkar Majhi
AT- Nayabazar,
P.S.- Plantsite,
District- Sundargarh.

                                 ............. Accused

Offence U/s. 47 (a) and (f) of the B & O Excise Act

Counsel for the prosecution : Suresh Ch. Majhi,
                                    A.P.P.,Rourkela

Counsel for the defence : B.N. Samanta &
                                    Associates

      	PREAMBLE
Date of conclusion of argument: 23.05.2015.
      Date of pronouncement of judgment: 25.05.2015.

                                 J U D G M E N T
        	PREAMBLE
The accused person namely Mariyam Majhi stands charged for the commission of offence u/s. 47 (a) and (f) of the Bihar & Orissa Excise Act.	FAC

The accused is on bail and is absent in the Court today.	FAC
2. Briefly stated, the case of the prosecution is that on 22.02.2002 at about 10.45 AM at Nayabazar area while G. Raxa, S.I. Of Excise, EI and EB , Sambalpur was performing patrolling duty along with other official staffs, they conducted raid in the house of the accused and recovered two earthen pots each containing F.M wash , one steel head and one earthen pot containing some liquid substance.	FAC
Thereafter he Conducted hydrometer and blue litmus paper tests.	FAC
After conducting above tests and from the distillery experience it was ascertained that the above contraband articles were nothing but F.M. Wash and I.D. Liquor.	FAC
On measurement the total amount of F.M.
Wash and I.D. Liquor were found to be 40 Kgs and 10 litres respectively.	FAC
On demand, the accused could not produce any authority or license in respect of the same.	FAC
Then sample of F.M wash and I.D. Liquor were kept in two separate bottles and seizure list was prepared.	FAC
After completion of inquiry, he submitted P.R. against the accused u/s. 47 (a) and (f) of the B & O Excise Act to face her trial .	FAC
Hence, this case.	FAC
3. The Plea of the defence is of outright denial and false implication.	FAC
4. The following points arose for determination in the present case: I.	ISSUE
Whether 22.02.2002 at about 10.45 AM at Nayabazar area , Mariyam Majhi, the accused, was detected by the Excise officials to be in exclusive and conscious possession of 40 Kgs of F.M wash and 10 litres of I.D. liquor without any license or authority?	ISSUE

    II.	ISSUE
Whether the seized articles were nothing but F.M wash and I.D.
        Liquor?	ISSUE
5. In order to substantiate its case the prosecution has examined 2 witnesses in all out of whom P.W.2, is the S.I of Excise, P.W.1, is the independent witness to the seizure.	ANALYSIS
Rest one witness has been declined by the learned A.P.P. Ext.s 1 to 1/ 2 are marked on behalf of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, defence has neither examined any witnesses nor marked any documents as exhibits on its behalf.	ANALYSIS
6. The learned defence counsel has argued that the case is falsely foisted against the accused and no such occurrence took place to which the learned APP vehemently objected.	ARG_RESPONDENT
7. At the outset, it is to be noted that P.W.1, the only independent witness examined on behalf of the prosecution does not support the case of the Prosecution.	ANALYSIS
He merely admits his signature on the seizure list which is proved as Ext.1 and does not whisper a word regarding the possession or the seizure of the alleged liquor and F.M. Wash from the accused.	ANALYSIS
Testimony of P.W.2, the Excise Constable, reveals that on 22.02.2002 at about 10.45 AM at Nayabazar area while he was performing patrolling duty along with other official staffs, after observing all the formalities they conducted raid in the house of the accused and recovered two earthen pots each containing F.M wash , one steel head and one earthen pot containing some liquid substance.	ANALYSIS

Thereafter S.I. conducted hydrometer and blue litmus paper tests.	ANALYSIS
After conducting above tests and from the distillery experience it was ascertained that the above contraband articles were nothing but F.M. Wash and I.D.
Liquor.	ANALYSIS
On measurement the total amount of F.M. Wash and I.D. Liquor were found to be 40 Kgs and 10 litres respectively.	ANALYSIS
On demand, the accused could not produce any authority or license in respect of the same.	ANALYSIS
Then sample of F.M wash and I.D. Liquor were kept in two separate bottles and seizure list was prepared.	ANALYSIS
He proved the seizure list as Ext.1/1 and his signature on it as Ext.1/2.	ANALYSIS
During the course of cross examination, nothing has been elicited out from the P.W. 2 to discredit his testimony.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2 has been serving in the Excise department.	ANALYSIS
Taking all these into considerations, there cannot be any doubt that the seized articles were nothing but F.M.
Wash and I.D. Liquor.	ANALYSIS
8. The next question to be determined is whether the seizure was made from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
The witness examined is the interested witness whose evidence required corroboration by independent witness which is absent in this case.	ANALYSIS
In the absence of independent corroboration, the search and seizure of the contraband articles become doubtful.	ANALYSIS
In view of the above discussion, the fact that the seized article was recovered from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused becomes doubtful.	ANALYSIS
Moreover, the sample bottles collected were not produced before the Court at the time of trial.	ANALYSIS
No documents relating to the ownership of the house were verified from the accused.	ANALYSIS
It is admitted by P.W.2 in his cross examination that the accused was residing with her husband and others in that house.	ANALYSIS
Thus, besides the accused, his other family members were utilizing the house.	ANALYSIS
The possibility that her husband and inmates have possessed the same can not be ruled out in the facts of this case.	ANALYSIS
When the evidence on this score is wanting, the criminal liability for the existence of the liquor and F.M. Wash can not be fastened on the accused beyond doubt.	ANALYSIS
There is totally absence of evidence regarding the conscious possession of the I.D. Liquor and fermented wash by the accused.	RATIO
Hence, it is concluded that prosecution has failed to prove the factum of seizure from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused beyond all reasonable doubts.	RATIO

 9.     In the result, therefore, I hold the accused not guilty of committing the offence punishable U/s. 47 (a) and (f) of the Bihar & Orissa Excise Act and acquit her as per S. 248(1) of the Cr.PC.	RPC
The accused be set at liberty forthwith and is discharged from her bail bond.	RPC

 The seized articles i.e. the bottles containing samples of I.D. Liquor and F.M. Wash be destroyed after four months of expiry of appeal period if no appeal is preferred and if preferred, be dealt with as per the direction of the Appellate Court.
 	RPC
Enter this case as mistake of fact.	RPC
Pronounced the judgment in the Open Court today i.e on 25th day of May, 2015 under my hand and seal of the Court.	NONE

 J.M.F.C, Rourkela	NONE
Typed to my dictation & corrected by me.	NONE

 .
                                                               J.M.F.C, Rourkela	NONE
List of witnesses examined for the prosecution: P.W.1  Md. Kamuruddin P.W.2  Digambara Das	NONE
List of witnesses examined for the defence: N o n e List of documents admitted in evidence for the prosecution: Ext. 1    Signature of P.W.1 Ext.1/1   Seizure list Ext. 1/1  Signature of P.W.2 on Ext.1/1 List of documents admitted in evidence for the defence:	NONE
N I L List of material objects admitted in evidence for the prosecution: N I L List of material objects admitted in evidence for defence: N I L J.M.F.C., Rourkela.	NONE
