IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY	PREAMBLE

                  NAGPUR BENCH : NAGPUR	PREAMBLE


             CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.67 OF 2015	PREAMBLE

                                     WITH

             CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 48 OF 2016
                                        ...

	PREAMBLE
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.67 OF 2015	PREAMBLE


The State of Maharashtra,
through the Police Station Officer,
Ghuggus Police Station,
Tahsil and District Chandrapur.	PREAMBLE
            ..  APPELLANT	PREAMBLE


                              .. Versus ..

Surajprasad @ Rajkumar s/o
Shivcharan Roy, aged about 49 years,
Occupation: Driver, R/o Sukaluthana,
Tahs. and District Chhindwara (M.P.)
presently Opposite Bank of India,
Chandrapur, Tah. and District
Chandrapur.                                 ..  RESPONDENT

Mr.S.M. Ukey, Additional Public Prosecutor for Appellant.	PREAMBLE

Mr. R.P. Thote, Advocate (Appointed) for Respondent.	PREAMBLE


                             ....	PREAMBLE
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.48 OF 2016
Surajprasad @ Rajkumar s/o
Shivcharan Roy, aged about 50 years,
Occupation: Driver, R/o Sukaluthana,
Tahsil and District Chhindwara (M.P.)
presently Opposite Bank of India,

Chandrapur, Tah. and District
Chandrapur.	PREAMBLE
..  APPELLANT

                              .. VERSUS..

	PREAMBLE
The State of Maharashtra,	PREAMBLE

through Police Station Officer,
Police Station, Ghuggus,	PREAMBLE

Tah. and District Chandrapur	PREAMBLE
.              ..  RESPONDENT

	PREAMBLE
Mr. R.P. Thote, Advocate (Appointed) for Appellant.	PREAMBLE

Mr.S.M. Ukey, Additional Public Prosecutor for Respondent.	PREAMBLE


                                           ....	PREAMBLE


CORAM	PREAMBLE
: R.K. Deshpande & Manish Pitale, JJ.	PREAMBLE

RESERVED ON : August 08, 2017
PRONOUNCED ON : August 11, 2017.	PREAMBLE
JUDGMENT	PREAMBLE
 (per Manish Pitale, J. )	NONE
By this judgment we are disposing of two appeals.	NONE

Criminal Appeal No. 48 of 2016 has been filed by the accused challenging the judgment and order dated 18.12.2014 passed by the Special Court, Chandrapur in Special (Child) Case No. 8 of 2013, whereby the accused-appellant has been convicted under Section 376(2)(f)(i) of the Indian Penal Code ( "IPC") read with Sections 4 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ("POCSO Act") and sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay fine of Rs.1,000/- and in default to suffer rigorous imprisonment for 3 months.	RLC
Criminal Appeal No.67 of 2015 has been filed by the State praying for enhancement of punishment, claiming that the sentence imposed on the accused of rigorous imprisonment for 10 years is inadequate, in the facts and circumstances of the case.	FAC

 2.  The prosecution case is that on 14.07.2013 the accused, stepfather of the victim/complainant (hereinafter referred to as "the prosecutrix"), came to his house at about 1 p.m. and gave to Rs.10/- to the prosecutrix and Rs.2/- each to her brothers for purchasing snacks from the grocery shop.	FAC
The children, including the prosecutrix, returned home at about 2.30 p.m., when the accused asked his sons to go and play outside the house.	FAC
3.  The accused then called the prosecutrix inside the house, closing the door from inside and he put her on a mat on the floor.	FAC
He then removed her slack and knicker and threatened her.	FAC
The accused laid the prosecutrix on the mat and upon removing his pant, he inserted his penis in the vagina of the prosecutrix.	FAC
Due to pain, she started weeping, upon which her mother came to the house and knocked the door.	FAC

 The accused wore his clothes, opened the door and after quarreling with the mother of the prosecutrix, he left the house.
 4.      	FAC
The mother (PW2) and a neighbor Vandana (PW4) claimed to have seen the aforesaid incident from gap in the door of the house.	FAC
5.      	FAC
The prosecutrix went along with her mother to the Police Station and lodged an oral report on the same day i.e. on 14.07.2013, pursuant to which first information report (FIR Exh.20) was registered on the same day against the accused for having committed the offences under Sections 376(2)(f) and 506 of the I.P.C. and Sections 4 and 6 of the POCSO Act.	FAC

 The allegation by the prosecutrix, being a minor, of rape against her own stepfather was a serious matter and the investigating authority immediately referred her for medical examination.	FAC

 6.      The prosecutrix was medically examined by the Medical Officer Dr. Dipti (PW9) on 14.07.2013 at the General Hospital in Chandrapur.	FAC
The said doctor issued a medical certificate (Exh.45) certifying that there was redness present on labia majora, labia minora all over and that hymen was freshly torn at the 3, 9 and 6 'O' clock position.	FAC

 7.  The Investigating Officer arrested the accused and seized his clothes and they were sent for chemical analysis.	FAC
It is relevant to mention here that the accused was also medically examined and it was found that he was capable of sexual intercourse.	FAC

 8.  In order to prove its case, the prosecution examined 10 witnesses, of whom PW2 (mother of the prosecutrix) and PW3 (neighbor) are eyewitnesses to the incident.	FAC
PW5 is the Headmistress of the School, who has proved the date of birth of the prosecutrix as 8.8.2003 to show that she was aged 9 years on the date of the incident.	FAC
PW8 is the Investigating Officer and PW9 is the Doctor who had examined the prosecutrix and issued the medical certificate.	FAC

 9.  The Special Court considered the case of the prosecution as well as the defence raised on behalf of the accused.	RLC
It found that the prosecution had been able to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt and that there was sufficient material on record to prove the guilt of the accused.	RLC
On this basis, the Special Court convicted and sentenced the accused as aforesaid.	RLC

 10.  As stated above, the accused as well as the State have filed appeals before this court against the aforesaid judgment and order of the Special Court.	FAC
The two appeals are being considered and decided by this common judgment.	ANALYSIS

 As Regards Criminal Appeal No.48 of 2016.	ANALYSIS

 11.  In support of the appeal filed by the accused/appellant, Mr. R.P. Thote, learned counsel submitted that there were contradictions in the evidence and material on record and that the Special Court erred in convicting and sentencing the accused.	ARG_PETITIONER
He contended that the version of the prosecutrix was not corroborated by other witnesses, that there was no evidence to prove penetration in the instant case to constitute the offence of rape as defined in Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code, that the prosecutrix herself had stated in her deposition that her mother had brushed her vagina by finger before taking her to the hospital for medical examination, thereby explaining the redness on parts of vagina and further that the accused was falsely implicated because the mother of the prosecutrix, i.e. wife of the accused, used to regularly fight and quarrel with him and that it was at her behest that the prosecutrix had launched a false case against him.	ARG_PETITIONER
The learned counsel for the accused/appellant also contended that the chemical analysis reports (Exhs. 39 and 40) showed that neither blood nor semen was detected on the clothes of the accused or the vaginal swab, thereby showing that the allegation of rape made against him was false.	ARG_PETITIONER

 12.  As against this, Mr. S.M. Ukey, learned Additional Public Prosecutor appearing for the respondent/State submitted that there was ample evidence and material on record to prove the case against the accused and that the Special Court was justified in convicting and sentencing the accused.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The learned A.P.P. for the respondent/State heavily relied upon the evidence of PW2, PW3 (prosecutrix), PW4 and PW9 to support his contentions.	ARG_RESPONDENT
On the question of the requirement of penetration in respect of offence of rape as defined in Section 375 of the I.P.C., the learned A.P.P. for the respondent/State relied upon judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of U.P. .vs. Babul Nath (1994) 6 Supreme Court Cases 29 and in the case of Aman Kumar and another	ARG_RESPONDENT
.vs. State of Haryana  (2004) 4 Supreme Court Cases 379.
 13.	ARG_RESPONDENT
       We have heard the learned counsel for the parties at length.	ANALYSIS
A perusal of Section 375 of the I.P.C. would show that one of the most important facets in the definition of rape is penetration into parts of the body of a woman as specified in the said provision.	STA
Thus, it becomes necessary to examine the evidence and material on record to come to a finding as to whether there was penetration in the instant case for the offence of rape to be proved against the accused.	ANALYSIS
In order to do that, it would be advantageous to understand the position of law, as laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court with regard to the question of penetration in the context of the offence of rape, defined in Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code.	ANALYSIS

 14.        In its judgment in the case of State of U.P. .vs.
 Babul Nath (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as follows:- "8.	PRE_RELIED
It may here be noticed that Section 375 of the IPC defines rape and the Explanation to Section 375 reads as follows: "Explanation.- Penetration is sufficient to constitute the sexual intercourse necessary to the offence of rape."
 	PRE_RELIED
From the Explanation reproduced above it is distinctly clear that ingredients which are essential for proving a charge of rape are the accomplishment of the act with force and resistance.	ANALYSIS
To constitute the offence of rape neither Section 375 of IPC nor the Explanation attached thereto require that there should necessarily be complete penetration of the penis into the private part of the victim/prosecutrix.	ANALYSIS
In other words to constitute the offence of rape it is not at all necessary that there should be complete penetration of the male organ with emission of semen and rupture of hymen.	ANALYSIS
Even partial or slightest penetration of the male organ within the labia majora or the vulva or pudenda with or without any emission of semen or even an attempt at penetration into the private part of the victim would be quite enough for the purpose of Sections 375 and 376 of IPC.	ANALYSIS
That being so it is quite possible to commit legally the offence of rape even without causing any injury to the genitals or leaving any seminal stains.	ANALYSIS
But in the present case before us as noticed above there is more than enough evidence positively showing that there was sexual activity on the victim and she was subjected to sexual assault without which she would not have sustained injuries of the nature found on her private part by the doctor who examined her.	ANALYSIS
"
 15.  It has been further held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Aman Kumar and another .vs. State of Haryana (supra) as follows:- "7. .........The rupture of hymen is by no means necessary to constitute the offence of rape.	PRE_RELIED
Even a slight penetration in the vulva is sufficient to constitute the offence of rape and rupture of the hymen is not necessary.	PRE_RELIED
Vulva penetration with or without violence is as much rape as vaginal penetration.	PRE_RELIED
The statute merely requires evidence of penetration, and this may occur with the hymen remaining intact.	PRE_RELIED
The actus reus is complete with penetration.	PRE_RELIED
It is well settled that the prosecutrix cannot be considered as accomplice and, therefore, her testimony cannot be equated with that of an accomplice in an offence of rape.	PRE_RELIED
In examination of genital organs, state of hymen offers the most reliable clue.	PRE_RELIED

While examining the hymen, certain anatomical characteristics should be remembered before assigning any significance to the findings.	PRE_RELIED
The shape and the texture of the hymen is variable.	PRE_RELIED

This variation, sometimes permits penetration without injury.	PRE_RELIED
This is possible because of the peculiar shape of the orifice or increased elasticity.	PRE_RELIED
On the other hand, sometimes the hymen may be more firm, less elastic and gets stretched and lacerated earlier.	PRE_RELIED
Thus a relatively less forceful penetration may not give rise to injuries ordinarily possible with a forceful attempt.	PRE_RELIED

The anatomical feature with regard to hymen which merits consideration is its anatomical situation.	PRE_RELIED
Next to hymen in positive importance, but more than that in frequency, are the injuries on labia majora.	PRE_RELIED
These, viz. labia majora are the first to be encountered by the male organ.	PRE_RELIED
They are subjected to blunt forceful blows, depending on the vigour and force used by the accused and counteracted by the victim.	PRE_RELIED
Further, examination of the females for marks of injuries elsewhere on the body forms a very important piece of evidence.	PRE_RELIED
To constitute the offence of rape, it is not necessary that there should be complete penetration of the penis with emission of semen and rupture of hymen.	PRE_RELIED
Partial penetration within the labia majora of the vulva or pudendum with or without emission of semen is sufficient to constitute the offence of rape as defined in the law.	PRE_RELIED
The depth of penetration is immaterial in an offence punishable under Section 376 IPC.
 16.	PRE_RELIED
The aforesaid position of law and a perusal of Section 375 of the I.P.C. would show that in order to constitute the offence of rape, it is not at all necessary that there should be complete penetration of the male organ with emission of semen or rupture of hymen.	ANALYSIS
It has been held that even a partial or slightest penetration of the male organ within the labia majora or the vulva without any emission of semen, would be quite enough for the purpose of Sections 375 and 376 of the I.P.C.
 17.  	ANALYSIS
Applying the said position of law to the facts of the present case, it would be evident that the accused has indeed committed rape on the prosecutrix and that he is liable for conviction under Section 376(2)(f) (i) of the I.P.C. , being a relative of the prosecutrix and the fact that she was less than 16 years of age at the time of the incident.	ANALYSIS
The fact that there has been penetration in the instant case is clear from the medical evidence wherein the Doctor (PW9) has found that there is redness all over the various parts of vagina and that hymen has suffered fresh rupture at the 3,6 and 9 'O' clock position.	ANALYSIS
In fact the Doctor has deposed on the basis of examination of the prosecutrix on the very day of the incident that there was sexual intercourse committed with the prosecutrix.	ANALYSIS
Thus, there is no substance in the contention raised by the learned counsel for the accused- appellant that in the absence of penetration, there was no rape committed on the prosecutrtix in the present case.	ANALYSIS

 18.  The contention raised on behalf of the learned counsel for the accused-appellant that the evidence of the prosecutrix was not corroborated, cannot be accepted.	ANALYSIS
An analysis of the evidence on record would show that there were two eyewitnesses to the incident i.e. PW2 Tarabai Roy (mother of the prosecutrix) and PW4 Vandana Chaudhari (neighbor).	ANALYSIS

 PW2 (mother of prosecutrix) stated in her deposition that when she returned home and found the door of the house closed from inside, she knocked on the door and at that time PW4 (neighbour) was also accompanying her.	ANALYSIS
As the accused did not open the door, PW2 stated that she saw from the gap in the door that the prosecutrix was lying on the mat and the accused was lying on her.	ANALYSIS
The slack and knicker of the prosecutrix was lying outside and that the accused did not have his full pant on his person.	ANALYSIS
PW2 then deposed that she shouted, upon which the accused wore his pant and opened the door.	ANALYSIS
He quarreled with her and left the house.	ANALYSIS

 19.  Similarly PW4 (neighbour) stated in her deposition that she along with PW2 saw the incident and that the accused was found establishing sex with his own daughter.	ANALYSIS
The other details were stated by PW4 in the same manner as narrated by PW2.	ANALYSIS
The version of the said two eyewitnesses fully corroborates the narration of the incident given by the prosecutrix.	ANALYSIS
In the cross-examination, the version of the said eyewitnesses has not been shaken.	ANALYSIS
Even otherwise, in the case of proving the offence of rape uncorroborated testimony of the prosecutrix is sufficient.	ANALYSIS
It has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of Himachal Pradesh .vs. Raghubir Singh (1993) 2 Supreme Court Cases 622 that there is no legal compulsion to look for corroboration of the evidence of the prosecutrix before recording an order of conviction and that conviction can be recorded on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix.
 20.  In the instant case, not only is the evidence of the prosecutrix sufficient to prove the guilt of the accused, the evidence of the two aforesaid eyewitnesses fully supports the case of the prosecution.	PRE_RELIED
Apart from this, the medical evidence on record shows that there was injury to the vagina of the prosecutrix and that the hymen was found freshly torn, thereby proving that she had suffered forcible sexual intercourse amounting to rape, at the hands of the accused-appellant.	ANALYSIS

 21.  The contention raised by the learned counsel for the accused-appellant that the version of the prosecution and the medical evidence was rendered suspicious due to the statement of the prosecutrix in cross-examination that before being taken to the hospital for medical examination, her mother by finger had brushed her vagina.	ANALYSIS
It was sought to be suggested by the learned counsel for the accused-appellant that the redness found on the vagina during medical examination was due to the said reason.	ANALYSIS
The said contention deserves to be rejected because the detailed medical certificate (Exh.45) showing redness on various parts of vagina and tearing of the hymen clearly point towards forcible sexual intercourse suffered by the prosecutrix.	ANALYSIS
The Doctor (PW9) who examined the prosecutrix, entered the witness box and gave details of the injuries suffered by the prosecutrix, clearly stating that in her opinion there was sexual intercourse.	ANALYSIS
Hence the said contention of the learned counsel for the accused- appellant is rejected.	ANALYSIS

 22.  The further contention raised on behalf of the accused that he had been falsely implicated by the mother of the prosecutrix as she used to have regular quarrels with him, is also unsustainable.	ANALYSIS
We find it difficult to believe that a mother would use her own daughter as a tool to falsely implicate her husband, only because there was some matrimonial discord between the two.	ANALYSIS

 23.  In view of the above, it is clear that the Special Court has correctly appreciated the facts on record, while convicting the accused/appellant.	ANALYSIS
The Special Court has correctly found that offence under Section 376(2)(f)(i) of the I.P.C. read with Sections 4 and 6 of the POCSO Act stood proved, because the prosecutrix was only 9 years old when the incident took place.	ANALYSIS

 24.  The facts that have been proved on record show that the prosecutrix was a minor at the time of the incident.	ANALYSIS
PW5, Headmistress of the school where the prosecutrix was studying, proved that the date of birth of the prosecutrix was 8.8.2003.	ANALYSIS
This fact was proved on the basis of the school record thereby clearly establishing that the prosecutrix was only 9 years old when the incident took place.	ANALYSIS
Thus, being a minor the requirements for applying the provisions of the POCSO Act were clearly satisfied in the present case and, therefore, the findings given by the Special Court do not deserve any interference.	RATIO
Accordingly, we confirm the order of the Special court of conviction under the said provisions passed against the accused-appellant and we dismiss the appeal.	RPC
AS REGARDS CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.67 OF 2015.
 25.  	ANALYSIS
This appeal has been filed by the State praying for enhancement of sentence imposed upon the accused.	ANALYSIS
It is the case of the State that the minimum sentence of rigorous imprisonment for 10 years imposed by the Special Court against the accused is not sufficient and that in the facts and circumstances of the case, he ought to be sentenced for life imprisonment under Section 376(2)(f)(i) of the I.P.C. read with Sections 4 and 6 of the POCSO Act.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 26.  The learned counsel for the State submits that the accused has committed a heinous crime against the prosecutrix as she was a minor aged only 9 years at the time of the incident.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The accused being the stepfather of the prosecutrix and a person in a position of trust and authority over her has committed a reprehensible act, which deserves the maximum punishment.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Reliance has been placed on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Shyam Narain .vs. State (NCT of Delhi  (2013) 7 Supreme Court Cases 77.	ARG_PETITIONER
As against this, the learned counsel for the accused has submitted that the Special Court has correctly imposed the minimum sentence in the present case.	ARG_PETITIONER

 28.  In order to decide whether the quantum of sentence imposed by the Special Court is sufficient and whether enhancement is necessary, it would be relevant to appreciate the position of law in this regard laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Shyam Narain .vs. State (NCT of Delhi) (supra).	PRE_RELIED
The relevant portions of the judgment read as follows:- "14.	PRE_RELIED
Primarily it is to be borne in mind that sentencing for any offence has a social goal.	PRE_RELIED

Sentence is to be imposed regard being had to the nature of the offence and the manner in which the offence has been committed.	PRE_RELIED
The fundamental purpose of imposition of sentence is based on the principle that the accused must realise that the crime committed by him has not only created a dent in his life but also a concavity in the social fabric.	PRE_RELIED
The purpose of just punishment is designed so that the individuals in the society which ultimately constitute the collective do not suffer time and again for such crimes.	PRE_RELIED
It serves as a deterrent.	PRE_RELIED
True it is, on certain occasions, opportunities may be granted to the convict for reforming himself but it is equally true that the principle of proportionality between an offence committed and the penalty imposed are to be kept in view.	PRE_RELIED
While carrying out this complex exercise, it is obligatory on the part of the Court to see the impact of the offence on the society as a whole and its ramifications on the immediate collective as well as its repercussions on the victim.	PRE_RELIED

........	PRE_RELIED
26. It is seemly to note that the legislature, while prescribing a minimum sentence for a term which shall not be less than ten years, has also provided that the sentence may be extended upto life.	PRE_RELIED
The legislature, in its wisdom, has left it to the discretion of the Court.	PRE_RELIED
Almost for the last three decades, this Court has been expressing its agony and distress pertaining to the increased rate of crimes against women.	PRE_RELIED
The eight year old girl, who was supposed to spend time in cheerfulness, was dealt with animal passion and her dignity and purity of physical frame was shattered.	PRE_RELIED
The plight of the child and the shock suffered by her can be well visualised.	PRE_RELIED

The torment on the child has the potentiality to corrode the poise and equanimity of any civilized society.	PRE_RELIED
The age old wise saying that "child is a gift of the providence" enters into the realm of absurdity.	PRE_RELIED
The young girl, with efflux of time, would grow with traumatic experience, an unforgettable shame.	PRE_RELIED
She shall always be haunted by the memory replete with heavy crush of disaster constantly echoing the chill air of the past forcing her to a state of nightmarish melancholia.	PRE_RELIED
She may not be able to assert the honour of a woman for no fault of hers.	PRE_RELIED

 27. Respect for reputation of women in the society shows the basic civility of a civilised society.	PRE_RELIED
No member of society can afford to conceive the idea that he can create a hollow in the honour of a woman.	PRE_RELIED
Such thinking is not only lamentable but also deplorable.	PRE_RELIED
It would not be an exaggeration to say that the thought of sullying the physical frame of a woman is the demolition of the accepted civilized norm, i.e., "physical morality".	PRE_RELIED
In such a sphere, impetuosity has no room.	PRE_RELIED
The youthful excitement has no place.	PRE_RELIED
It should be paramount in everyone's mind that, on one hand, the society as a whole cannot preach from the pulpit about social, economic and political equality of the sexes and, on the other, some perverted members of the same society dehumanize the woman by attacking her body and ruining her chastity.	PRE_RELIED
It is an assault on the individuality and inherent dignity of a woman with the mindset that she should be elegantly servile to men.	PRE_RELIED
Rape is a monstrous burial of her dignity in the darkness.	PRE_RELIED
It is a crime against the holy body of a woman and the soul of the society and such a crime is aggravated by the manner in which it has been committed.	PRE_RELIED
We have emphasised on the manner because, in the present case, the victim is an eight year old girl who possibly would be deprived of the dreams of "Spring of Life" and might be psychologically compelled to remain in the "Torment of Winter".	PRE_RELIED
When she suffers, the collective at large also suffers.	PRE_RELIED
Such a singular crime creates an atmosphere of fear which is historically abhorred by the society.	PRE_RELIED
It demands just punishment from the court and to such a demand, the courts of law are bound to respond within legal parameters.	PRE_RELIED
It is a demand for justice and the award of punishment has to be in consonance with the legislative command and the discretion vested in the court."
 29.  	PRE_RELIED
In the earlier part of this common judgment we have already found that the conviction of the accused for the afore- mentioned offences as imposed by the Special Court is correct.	ANALYSIS
Having found the accused guilty of the charges leveled against him, we have given our thoughtful consideration to the aspect of enhancement of sentence, as prayed by the appellant-State.	ANALYSIS
A perusal of the judgment and order of the Special Court would show that while discussing the aspect of imposition of sentence on the accused, the Special Court found as follows:- "Certainly, victim is unfortunate step daughter of the accused.	ANALYSIS
She was aged about 9 years on the date of incident.	ANALYSIS
She was school going child.	ANALYSIS
She was leading her life under the protection of accused.	ANALYSIS
But he himself has breached the trust of the victim, rather society.	ANALYSIS
It was the duty of the accused to give nutritious food, proper education, care and protection to develop victim as a member of better society.	ANALYSIS
However, accused has committed heinous offence.	ANALYSIS
If the accused is shown leniency, it will give wrong signal in the society.	ANALYSIS
So, he has to be dealt with deterrently so as to prevent others to commit such heinous offence."
 	ANALYSIS
Thus, it is evident that the Special Court had found that the accused did not deserve any leniency in the matter of imposing sentence upon him for having committed offences under Section 376 (2)(f)(i) of the I.P.C. and Sections 4 and 6 of POCSO Act.	ANALYSIS

 30.  Applying the law as laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, it would be evident that having given the aforesaid findings even on the question of sentence against the accused, the Special Court clearly fell in error in awarding the minimum sentence of rigorous imprisonment of 10 years.	RATIO
We are of the opinion that in the facts and circumstances of the present case, the accused has committed a barbaric act of raping his own stepdaughter who was only 9 years old at the time of the incident.	RATIO
The accused was supposed to take care of the prosecutrix and he has not only blatantly violated the trust that the prosecutrix had in him, but he has virtually destroyed the life of the prosecutrix and scarred her physically, mentally and psychologically for the rest of her life.	RATIO

 In this situation, we find that the appropriate punishment to be imposed on the accused would be to enhance the sentence to rigorous imprisonment for life as provided under Section 376(2) (f)(i) of the I.P.C. and Sections 4 and 6 of POCSO Act.	RPC

 Accordingly, the appeal filed by the State stands allowed and the accused is sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.	RPC

 31.          The fees of the learned counsel appointed for the accused-appellant are quantified at Rs.5,000/- (Rs. Five Thousand) for each appeal.	NONE

 (Manish Pitale, J. )                       (R.K. Deshpande, J.) ...	NONE

 halwai/p.s.	NONE
