IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE,
                                   BONAI.	PREAMBLE


Present:-	PREAMBLE


           Sri Ganeswar Pati, LL.B.
           Additional District & Sessions Judge,
           Bonai.	PREAMBLE


Sessions Trial No. 39/ 78 of 2014
	PREAMBLE
(Arising out of GR Case No. 491 of 2013 of the file of the SDJM,
Bonai corresponds to Chandiposh P.S. Case No.49 dated
07.12.2013 committed to the Court of Session on 24.03.2014 by
the learned SDJM, Bonai).

STATE OF ODISHA.                ...	PREAMBLE
Complainant.	PREAMBLE


                      -Versus-

MANGLU SINGH, aged -63 years, son of late Dhela Singh of

village- Kanchhinda (Tamada), PS- Chandiposh, District-

Sundargarh (Odisha).                       	PREAMBLE
(in custody)	PREAMBLE
... Accused Person.	PREAMBLE
For the Prosecution:            Sri Kailash Pradhan,
For the defence :               Addl. P.P, Bonai.
                                	PREAMBLE
Miss S.Senapati, Advocate,
                                Bonai.(appointed as SDC).

           Date of Argument: 05.08.2016.
           Date of Judgment:: 12.08.2016.

(OFFENCE U/s.302 of INDIAN PENAL CODE)

           J U D G M E N T	PREAMBLE
The above named accused stands charged for the offence punishable U/s.302 of the Indian Penal Code (herein after referred as IPC).	FAC

2 Prosecution case in brief is that on 07.12.2013 at about 10.55 AM one Biswanatha Singh, son of Manglu Singh of village-Kachhinda (Tamada) reported in writing at Chandiposh PS stating therein that on the same day at about 8.30 AM the accused-father Manglu Singh caused murder of his mother Mangri Munda during a family quarrel in their house.	FAC
He further gathered information that during that quarrel his father dealt blows at the neck of his mother with a tangia and killed her there at the spot.	FAC
On getting such information the informant who was then outside his house came to his house and found the dead body of his mother that was falling inside their house sustaining severe bleeding injuries.	FAC
He further found his father-accused was sitting near the dead body of his mother.	FAC
Being asked the accused told the informant that during a family quarrel, he has caused murder of Mangri Munda, his wife by assaulting her with a tangia.	FAC
Thereafter the informant lodged a written report at the PS and basing on his FIR, SI of police Barendra Sial registered PS case No. 49 of 2013 in absence of the OIC and took up its investigation.	FAC

 During the course of investigation the I.O visited the spot, examined the informant and other material witnesses, made inquest on the dead body of the deceased and sent it for its post mortem examination, apprehended the accused, seized the weapon of offence.,i.e an axe, prepared the seizure lists and thereafter on completion of investigation, he has submitted the CS u/s. 302 of IPC against the accused and placed him for his trial.	FAC
Hence, this case.	FAC
3. The plea of the defence is denial.	FAC

4 The prosecution has examined as many as 14 witnesses to prove its case.	FAC
PW.1 is the informant.	FAC
PWs.2, 3 & 4 are the occurrence witnesses.	FAC
PW.5 is one of the sons of the deceased.	FAC

 PWs. 6, 7, 8 & 12 are the other witnesses to the occurrence.	FAC
PWs.9, 10 & 13 are the seizure witnesses.	FAC
PW.11 is the M.O who had conducted autopsy on the dead body of the deceased.	FAC

PW.14 is the I.O who had investigated into this case and finally submitted the CS against the accused.	FAC

 On the other hand the defence preferred none to examine in its favour to substantiate its defence plea.	FAC

5 The only point for determination is that (i) Whether on 07.12.2013 at about 8 AM in village- Kachhinda (Tamda) the accused committed murder of one Mangri Munda, his wife by intentionally or knowingly assaulting her with a tangia causing her death ?	ISSUE

6 On an analysis of the prosecution evidence, it is found that PW.1, the informant stated in his evidence that the accused is his father, while the deceased Mangri was his mother.	FAC
It is in his evidence that on the day of the incident he had gone out side of his house for daily wages and while he came back to his house at noon time, he found the dead body of his mother was falling inside their dwelling house.	FAC
He further found his father-accused was sitting near the dead body of his mother, who told him that he has killed his mother by assaulting her with a tangia.	FAC
Then he lodged his written report at the PS.	FAC
He has proved his written report as Ext.1.
7. PW.2, the local Gramrakhe stated in his evidence that on the day of the incident at around 9 AM he got information from the villagers that the accused has killed his wife, so he went to the spot, found the dead body of the deceased that was falling inside the house of the accused sustaining cut injury at her neck.	FAC

He further stated in his evidence that he has ascertained from the villagers that the accused has killed his wife by assaulting her with a Budia (axe).	FAC
So he informed the local police, who arrived at the spot and took the accused to the PS.	FAC
PW.3 stated in his evidence that on the day of the incident he was absent from his house, but on his return on the next day of the incident, he came to know from the villagers that the accused has committed the murder of his wife Mangri.	FAC
PW.4 similarly stated in her evidence that she was not present at the time of such incident, but on her return at around evening time she came to know about the death of Mangri, but she did not state the name of the person who had killed the deceased there at the spot.
8.	FAC
PW.5, the other son of the deceased stated in his evidence that on the day of the incident he was absent from his house, as he has gone outside for his wages, but on his return, he found the dead body of his mother was falling inside their house with severe bleeding injuries at her neck.	FAC
He further stated in his evidence that his father was absent from the house.	FAC
This witness stated in his evidence that police made inquest on the dead body of his mother and that he has signed on the inquest report as a witness.	FAC
PW.6, scribe of the FIR stated in his evidence that as per the instruction of the informant, he has scribed the FIR that was lodged at the PS.	FAC
PWs. 7, 8 & 12, the other occurrence witnesses stated nothing regarding the incident, nor they have implicated the accused during their examination in the Court.	FAC
9. PWs.9, 10 & 13 are found to be the witnesses to the seizure, who have proved different seizure lists, but they have no direct knowledge about the incident.	FAC
10. PW.11, the M.O who had conducted post mortem examination on the dead body of the deceased Mangri Singh @ Munda found 3 nos. of incised wounds at her neck.	FAC
Incised injury No.(i) has cut through all the muscle of the vessel of the neck have been cut through vertebra column at its way, while Incised injury No.(ii) above the first Incised injury at her neck cut through superficial muscle on small vessel.	FAC
The Iincised injury No.(iii) was over the right shoulder of the deceased.	FAC
The injuries were all ante mortem in nature as per the opinion of the M.O and the cause of death was due to shock and hemorrhage.	FAC
The M.O further opined through his P.M examination report, Ext.7 that the cumulative effect of the injuries was sufficient in ordinary course to cause the death.	FAC
He further stated in his evidence that on 08.12.2013 at about 11 AM, the I.O produced the weapon of offence, an axe before him stained with blood that he has examined and gave his opinion vide his report, Ext.8 that the injuries he had noticed on the dead body of the deceased were all possible by that weapon.	FAC
11. PW.14, the I.O stated in his evidence that on 07.12.2013 he has registered PS case No. 49 of 2013 in absence of the OIC, Chandiposh PS on the written report of the informant and took up its investigation.	FAC
It is in his evidence that during the course of his investigation he has visited the spot, examined the informant and other material witnesses, made inquest on the dead body of the deceased and sent it for its post mortem examination.	FAC
He further stated in his evidence that he has seized the incriminating materials from the spot alongwith the wearing apparel of the deceased, he apprehended the accused while he was sitting near the dead body of the deceased, arrested him and forwarded to custody and thereafter on completion of investigation, he has submitted CS in this case.	FAC

12. During the course of argument, the learned Additional P.P contended that the sole evidence of PW.1 is sufficient enough to prove the guilt of the accused, hence he has urged to punish the accused adequately according to law.	ARG_PETITIONER
He further contended that the accused has confessed his guilt before the informant (PW.1), his son, so there is no reason to disbelieve the version of PW.1 and conviction can be based on his testimony as confession of the accused was free and voluntary.
 	ARG_PETITIONER
On the contrary, the learned defence counsel contended that the sole evidence of PW.1 relating to extra judicial confession of the accused is not free from doubt; hence in such circumstances no conviction can be based solely on his version without any other independent corroboration.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Hence, she has prayed for an acquittal of the accused.	ARG_RESPONDENT
In support of her contention, the learned defence counsel relied upon a case law as it is reported in (2011) 49 OCR 662 Sukun Kisan versus- State of Orissa, wherein Their Lordship held that mere absence of inducement, threat or promise is not enough to make the confession admissible, but the person making must be expecting the gain in advantage or avoid any evil of a temporal nature.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It was further held by Their Lordship that prosecution must establish the reasons for the accused to repose confidence on the person before whom he is making such confession.	ARG_RESPONDENT
She has also cited another case law as it is reported in (2011) 49 OCR (SC) 684 Ranjit Singh versus- State of Punjab, wherein Their Lordship held that extra judicial confession is extremely a weak kind of evidence and conviction on its basis alone is rarely recorded.	ARG_RESPONDENT
She has further relied on another case law as it is reported in Sama Kisan-versus- State of Orissa reported in (2011) 50 OCR 852. wherein Their Lordship held that while the fact of extra judicial confession of the accused is not stated by the witness before the IO while recording his statement u/s. 161 Cr.P.C, his later version on that aspect in the Court is not free from reasonable doubt.	ARG_RESPONDENT
On relying upon the above case laws, the learned defence counsel contended that the theory of extra judicial confession as it is claimed by the prosecution in this case is not at all reliable, hence benefit of doubt be tendered in favour of the accused.	ARG_RESPONDENT
13. While the factual matrix of this case is as such we are now to make scrutiny of the evidence on record in order to arrive at our conclusion, whether the prosecution has successfully proved its case against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt or not.	ANALYSIS
14. In fact in a case of murder, it is the bounden duty on the part of prosecution first to establish that the injuries inflicted on the deceased were all homicidal and anti mortem in nature and then to prove that the accused had inflicted the injuries causing such death either intentionally or with knowledge that the injuries inflicted on the victim were sufficient enough in ordinary course of nature to cause the death.	ANALYSIS
The prosecution case may be proved by direct evidence or through circumstantial evidence.	ANALYSIS
If the direct evidence is clear and cogent, a conviction can be based on such evidence without any other aid.	ANALYSIS
Similarly, conviction can be based on circumstantial evidence only if the chain of evidence is so completed as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.	ANALYSIS
So it is essential in the eye of law that the chain of circumstances aiming at the guilt of the accused should be completed without any break.	ANALYSIS
Admittedly in the present case at hand, there is no eye witness to the occurrence.	ANALYSIS
None has claimed to have seen the incident in his eye while the accused committed murder of the deceased.	ANALYSIS
Only PW.1, the informant- son of the deceased stated in his evidence that the accused has confessed his guilt admitting to have committed the murder of Mangri by assaulting her with a tangia during a family quarrel.	ANALYSIS
Beside such piece of evidence, there is no other evidence on record to implicate the accused in this case.	ANALYSIS
The other occurrence witnesses who deposed in the Court are found to be post occurrence witnesses having no direct knowledge about the incident.	ANALYSIS
So at this juncture it is now the duty of the Court to make thorough scrutiny on the evidence of PW.1 relating to extra judicial confession of the accused as it is claimed by the prosecution in this case.	ANALYSIS
It is admitted fact that PW.1 is none, but the son of both the deceased and the accused	ANALYSIS
. PW.1 further fairly admitted in his evidence that he was absent from his house at the time of such incident as he had gone outside for his wages.	ANALYSIS
It is in his evidence that during the noon time while he had come back to his house, he found the dead body of his mother Mangri was falling inside their house with severe bleeding injury at her neck.	ANALYSIS
He further noticed that his father-accused was sitting near the dead body of his mother, who had admitted to have committed the murder of Mangri by assaulting her with a tangia during a family quarrel.	ANALYSIS
This part of his evidence found well corroborated to the facts that he has mentioned in his FIR.	ANALYSIS
In his FIR, the informant, PW.1 specifically stated that the accused has confessed his guilt before him admitting to have committed the murder of his mother that he has reported to the police in the earliest opportunity while filing his FIR.	ANALYSIS
Similarly, PW.1, the informant also stated in his statement recorded u/s. 161 Cr.P.C by the I.O that the accused told him that he has committed murder of his wife by assaulting her with a tangia.	ANALYSIS
So while assessing the evidence of PW.1, we have now to keep in mind the basic principle as enunciated by the case laws while considering the extra judicial confession.	ANALYSIS
The learned defence counsel at the time of argument relied on a case law as it is reported in 2015(II) OLR 614 Dasia Kanhu & another versus- State of Orissa, wherein Their Lordship while considering the case of extra judicial confession came to Their findings that the extra judicial confession of the accused should be free and voluntary unless it is hazardous to base any conviction on such evidence of extra judicial confession.	ARG_RESPONDENT
She has further contended that PW.1 did not ascertain from his accused-father the reasons for which he has committed the murder of his wife.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It was further contended by the defence that no where in his evidence PW.1 stated the reasons for which the accused has committed murder of his mother, Mangri.	ARG_RESPONDENT
So the bald statement of the witness regarding such extra judicial confession is not acceptable in the eye of law.	ARG_RESPONDENT
On the contrary the learned Additional P.P contended that there is no circumstance before the Court to disbelieve the version of PW.1, as he is none but the son of the accused who has no ill motive to implicate the accused in this crime.	ARG_PETITIONER
He further contended that the evidence of PW.1 is found truthful without any exaggeration; hence his evidence can be relied upon to base a conviction against the accused.	ARG_PETITIONER
So keeping in mind the contentions of both the sides, we are now to go through some leading case laws on extra judicial confession as it were propounded by the Hon'ble Courts.	ANALYSIS
In a case law as it is reported in 2014 Supp(II) OLR 999 Hari Dehury versus- State of Orissa, Their Lordship held that evidentiary value of the extra judicial confession must be judged in the facts and circumstances of each individual case.	PRE_RELIED
If such extra judicial confession is voluntary and consistent with the circumstantial evidence then only the guilt of the accused can be established.	PRE_RELIED
In another case law as it is reported in 2009(I) OLR 548 State of Orissa-versus-Mulia Adapadia, Their Lordship held that unless the extra judicial confession is made voluntarily before a witness on whom the accused has trust and confidence, such statement should not be acted upon.	PRE_RELIED
In another case as it is reported in (2011) 49 OCR (SC) 712 Sk. Yusuf-versus- State of West Bengal, Their Lordship of the Hon'ble Apex Court held that extra judicial confession is certainly a weak piece of evidence, but if it is true and voluntary and made in a free state of mind, then it is credible one and conviction can be based on such extra judicial confession.	PRE_RELIED
Similarly, in another case as it is reported in (2012) 52 OCR SC 435 Sahadeb and another- vesus- State of Tamilnadu, Their Lordship of the Hon'ble Apex Court has formulated certain principles while considering the extra judicial confession of the accused.	PRE_RELIED
Those are:-	PRE_RELIED
(i) The extra judicial confession is weak evidence by itself.	PRE_RELIED
It has to be examined by the Court with great care and caution, (ii) It should be made voluntarily and should be truthful, (iii) It should inspires confidence, (iv) The extra judicial confession attains a great credibility and evidentiary value, if it is supported by a chain of cogent circumstances and is further corroborated by the prosecution evidence, (v) In an extra judicial confession to base any conviction, it should not be suffer from any material discrepancy and inherent improbability, (vi) Such statement essentially has to be proved like any other fact in accordance with law.
 	PRE_RELIED
So keeping in mind, the ratios of the case laws cited above, we have now to make thorough analysis on the evidence of PW.1.	ANALYSIS
As it is previously discussed that PW.1 is none but the son of the deceased and the accused, normally there is no possibility on his part to implicate his father-accused falsely in such a heinous crime.	ANALYSIS
It is clear from the evidence of PW.1 that he came back to his house while he found the dead body of his mother was falling inside the house.	ANALYSIS
He further found that his father was sitting by the side of the deceased, who had voluntarily told him that he has killed his mother by assaulting her with a tangia during a family quarrel.	ANALYSIS
The circumstance never suggests that there was coercion or threat on the accused to make such confession.	ANALYSIS
It is also abundantly clear that the person before whom the accused has confessed his guilty was his son and normally one can repose confidence on his kith and kin while making such confession.	ANALYSIS
No other animosity between the son and accused-father was established by the defence to discredit the evidence of PW.1.	ANALYSIS
So the confession of the accused in my considered opinion was certainly voluntary and truthful that inspires confidence in the mind of the Court.	ANALYSIS
The circumstance of the case also corroborates the fact of confession of the accused as it is claimed by PW.1 in this case.	ANALYSIS
The I.O, PW.14 who had reached the spot soon after receiving information from the Grama Rakhi found the accused while he was sitting near the dead body of his wife.	ANALYSIS
The I.O further stated in his evidence that he has seen the weapon of offence, a tangia that the accused has kept near the spot.	ANALYSIS
The M.O, PW.11 before whom the weapon of offence, the axe was produced noticed blood stain marks on it, that also equally corroborates to the fact of killing of the deceased by such weapon, an axe.	ANALYSIS
So the whole circumstances of this case clearly suggest me to believe that the accused has killed his wife Mangri during a family quarrel by assaulting her brutally with a tangia.	ANALYSIS
Such extra judicial confession of the accused is accepted in this case, as it is found free, voluntary and truthful.	ANALYSIS
There is no ambiguity in the mind of the Court to disbelieve such extra judicial confession of the accused as no other contrary is proved by the defence to discard such evidence of PW.1.	ANALYSIS
Though PW.1 was extensively cross examined by the defence, but nothing tangible could be brought out to disbelieve such version on extra judicial confession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
So I repose confidence on the evidence of PW.1.	ANALYSIS

Hence it is held that in fact the accused has killed his wife Mangri Munda by assaulting her with a tangia and as such the confession was free and voluntary, hence it is accepted.	ANALYSIS
So in such circumstances we have now to further make scrutiny on the circumstances, in which the death was occurred.	ANALYSIS
15. The learned defence counsel at the time of argument alternatively urged that in case the prosecution case is believed, then also it never falls u/s. 302 of IPC as the accused has not killed his wife intentionally.	ANALYSIS
So she has submitted that at best the accused can be punished u/s. 304, Part-II of IPC in case the entire prosecution case is established.	ANALYSIS

16. Section-300 IPC defines `murder' speaks that when the culpable homicide is committed with intention to causing death(clause-firstly) or with the intention of causing such bodily injury which the offence knows is likely to cause death of the person to whom the harm is caused (clause-secondly) or if it is done with the intention of causing bodily injuries which is intentionally inflicted and such bodily injury is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death of the deceased (clause thirdly) or the offender committed culpable homicide by an act which he knows that it is imminently so dangerous that in all probability such act is likely to cause death of the deceased or likely to cause any injury as is likely to cause death without any excuse for causing the death or such bodily injury (clause fourthly) the same amounts to murder.	STA
But such culpable homicide shall not amount to murder if the same is done in any of the circumstances provided in the exception to Section- 300 of IPC.	STA
Culpable homicide caused in the circumstances mentioned in clause-Istly to Clause-3rdly to Section- 300 of IPC if covered by any of the five exceptions there in the said section the same would attract the ingredients of charge u/s. 304, Part-I of IPC, but when caused in the circumstances provided in Clause-4thly by Section- 300 of IPC and covered by any of the five exceptions, the same would attract the ingredients of Section- 304, Part-II of IPC.
17.	STA
So keeping in view the principles stated above, now we have to go through the evidence on record in order to arrive at our conclusion, whether the prosecution case falls u/s. 302 of IPC or it falls u/s. 304, Part-II of IPC as it is claimed by the defence.	ANALYSIS
In a case law as it is reported in (2009) 44 OCR 938 Khaga @ Khageswat Naik and others- versus- State of Orissa, wherein Their Lordship held that where the incident took place without any pre-plan but in a heat of passion then it falls u/s. 304, Part-II of IPC instead of section- 302 of IPC.	PRE_RELIED
In another case law as it is reported in (2009) 44 OCR 723 Adikanda Mohanty and another-versus- State of Orissa, Their Lordship held that while the assault was not made with a pre-plan, but the incident happened at the spur of the moment causing death of a person due to assault of the accused, then also it falls u/s. 304, Part-II of IPC, instead of u/s. 302 of IPC.	PRE_RELIED
In another case law as it is reported in (2005) 11 SCC 536 Tanka Chain versus- State, Their Lordship held that when there is no motive to cause death, section- 300 of IPC is not attracted, but if the assailant knew that the said injury is likely to cause the death, the conviction will be u/s. 304, Part-II of IPC.	PRE_RELIED
Similarly, in another case law as it is reported in (2000) 7 SCC 2249 State-versus- Indarjit, Their Lordship held that absence of intention to cause a death coupled with lack of knowledge that death would be inevitably caused on account of the injury would make an offence falls only u/s.304,Part-II of IPC, but not u/s. 302 of IPC.	PRE_RELIED

 Admittedly the present incident happened during a family quarrel and during that quarrel with a heat of passion the accused has dealt blows with a tangia at the neck of his wife while causing murder.	RATIO
There was no intention on the part of the accused to cause the murder of his wife, nor it is established through the evidence that it was a pre-planned murder..	RATIO
It happened due to sudden quarrel without any intention of causing murder, though the blows were fatal in nature and inflicted with a dangerous weapon like tangia.	RATIO
Though there was no intention of the accused to kill his wife, Mangri, but the circumstances suggest that the accused has knowledge of causing such injuries on her vital part at her neck by inflicting the same with dangerous weapon like tangia, resulted to her death.	RATIO
So the present case though covers section- 300, Clause-(iv) of IPC, but it falls under exception (iv) of the same section.	RATIO
Hence, the accused is liable to be punished for committing the offence punishable u/s. 304, Part-II of IPC, instead of u/s. 302 of IPC.	RATIO
So in view of my above discussions, I came to my clear findings that the prosecution could be able to prove the offence punishable u/s. 304, Part-II of IPC against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.	RATIO
18. In the result, the accused is not found guilty for committing the offence punishable u/s. 302 of IPC and he is acquitted thereof u/s. 235(i) Cr. P.C.	RPC
But he is found guilty for committing the offence punishable u/s. 304, Part-II of IPC and convicted him thereunder.	RPC
19. Further considering the facts and circumstances of this case, nature and gravity of the offence and its impact in the society and magnitude of punishment prescribed under law, this Court is not inclined to extend the benefit of Probation of Offender Act in favourt of the convict.	RPC

 Additional Sessions Judge, Bonai.	NONE

 The judgment is pronounced in the open court to-day this the 12th day of August, 2016 given under my hand and the seal of the Court, after it was typed to my dictation and corrected by me.
 Sd/- Additional Sessions Judge, Bonai.
 HEARING ON THE QUESTION OF SENTENCE Heard on the question of the sentence from both the sides at length.	NONE
The learned defence counsel appearing for the convict contended that the convict Is an old rustic man having his other dependant family members, hence prayed to take lenient view while imposing sentence.	RPC
On the other hand learned Additional P.P contended that the convict has brutally killed his wife, so he may be adequately punished according to law.	RPC
Perused the case record and it is found that no previous crime is proved against the convict.	RPC
The convict is also found to be an old rustic man.	RPC
So taking into consideration the above facts and circumstances of the case, lenient view is taken while imposing sentences on him.	RPC
The convict is sentenced to undergo R.I for 7 (SEVEN) years and to pay a fine of Rs.5,000/-(Rupees five thousand) only and in its default to undergo RI for six months for the offence punishable u/s.304, Part-II of IPC.	RPC

 The UTP period, if any of the convict, be set-off with the sentence.
 	RPC
The seized articles in this case, if any be destroyed after four months of the appeal period if no appeal is preferred.	RPC
In case of any appeal it to be dealt with the orders of the Appellate Court.	RPC

 Sd/- Additional Sessions Judge, Bonai.	NONE
List of witnesses examined by the prosecution.	NONE
PW.1      Biswanath Singh.	NONE
PW.2      Prahalad Singh.	NONE
PW.3      Raghunatjha Singh.	NONE
PW.4      Fulmani Singh.	NONE
PW.5      Rasananda Singh.	NONE
PW.6      Theophil Oram.	NONE
PW.7      Birsa Munda.	NONE
PW.8      Edward James Gudia.
PW.9      	NONE
Guru Charan Singh.	NONE
PW.10     Efrem Beck.	NONE
PW.11     Dr A.Mishra.
	NONE
PW.12     	NONE
Raju Bhokla.	NONE
PW.13     Isak Kullu.	NONE
PW.13     	NONE
Barendra Sial.	NONE
List of witnesses examined on behalf of the defence.	NONE

                  Nil.	NONE
List of documents marked for prosecution.	NONE

 Ext. 1    FIR.
 Ext. 1/1  Signature of PW.1.
 Ext. 2    Seizure list.	NONE
Ext. 2/1  Signature of PW.1.
 	NONE
Ext..3    Inquest report.	NONE

 Ext.3/1   Signature of PW.5.
 Ext.1/2   Signature of PW.6.
 Ext.3/2   Signature of PW.9.
 Ext.4     Seizure list.	NONE

 Ext.4/1   Signature of PW.10.
 Ext.5     Seizure list.
 Ext.5/1   Signature of PW.10.
 Ext.6     Seizure list.
 Ext.6/1   Signature of PW.10.
 Ext.7     PM report.
 Ext.7/1   Signature of PW.11.	NONE
Ext.8     Medical opinion.	NONE

 Ext.8/1   Signature of PW.11.	NONE

 Ext.9     Report of PW.11.	NONE

 Ext.9/1   Signature of PW.11.
5/2       Signature of PW.13.
Ext.4/2   Signature of PW.13.
Ext.6/2   Signature of PW.13.
Ext.1/3   Signature and endorsement of PW.14.
Ext.10    Formal xFIR.
Ext.10/1  Signature of PW.14.
Ext.3/3   Signature of PW.14.
Ext.11    Dead body challan.
Ext.11/1  Signature of PW.14.
Ext.2/2   Signature of PW.14.
Ext.5/3   Signature of PW.14.
Ext.4/3   Signature of PW.14.
Ext.6/3   Signatue of PW.14.
Ext.12    Forwarding report of accused.
Ext.12/1  Signature of PW.14.
 List of documents marked on behalf of defence.
                  Nil.
 List of Material Objects, admitted in to evidence.
                  Nil.	NONE
sd/- Additional Sessions Judge, Bonai.	NONE
