IN THE COURT OF VIII ADDL.DISTRICT & SESSIONS
             JUDGE,MYSURU, SITTING: HUNSUR.

                	PREAMBLE
Present :  B.S.Jayashree,
                                  LL.M.,

                           	PREAMBLE
VIII Addl	PREAMBLE
. District &	PREAMBLE
Sessions Judge

                   Crl.	PREAMBLE
Mis.No.1383/2017
                	PREAMBLE
Dated 17th day of July 2017

Petitioner/s:-  	PREAMBLE
Swamy S/o Jailinga,
                Aged about 26 years,
                R/at Mullur villgae,
                Sargur Hobli,
                HD Kote taluk, Mysuru Dist.

Respondent:-     (By Sri.KSM, adv.)	PREAMBLE

                         V/s.

                State by SHO,	PREAMBLE
Sargur P.S., HD Kote taluk

                	PREAMBLE
(By Public Prosecutor)

      ORDERS ON THE BAIL APPLICATION FILED UNDER SECTION 438 OF Cr.P.C.
 	PREAMBLE
This is a petition filed by the petitioner U/S. 438 of Cr.P.C. seeking grant of bail for the offences U/S. 32 and 34 of Karnataka Excise Act in connection with Sargur P.S. Cr.No.78/2017.	FAC
2. The Public Prosecutor opposed the petition by filing objections.	FAC
3. Heard both sides.
 4. Perused the contents of bail petition, objection, FIR, complaint, case diary and other materials on record in the light of submission of counsels.	NONE
The points that arise for consideration of this court are: 1. Whether the petitioner had made out reasonable and acceptable grounds for grant of bail ?
 2. What order?	ISSUE

 5. My answers to the above points are as here under: Point No.1: In the Affirmative.	ANALYSIS

                  Point No.2: As per order REASONS 6.	ANALYSIS
Point No.1:	ANALYSIS
Sargur Police registered the above crime for the offence punishable U/S. 32, 34 of Karnataka Excise Act against petitioner on the basis of complaint of Madappa, PSI.	ANALYSIS
It is alleged in the complaint that, on 27.6.2017 the complainant and other police constables who were on official duty to apprehend the accused who was charged for the offence U/S. 302 IPC and other offences in Cr.No.77/2017, while they were searching for the accused at Halasur,Chamalapura, Mullur and Dadadahalli villages at 5.00 p.m. when they reached mullur- chamalapura village near a channel, they found a person carrying a plastic bag on a motorbike and on seeing them he had left the bag and motor bike and ran away from the place.	FAC
Complainant and other police constables made attempt to apprehend him , but they could not succeed.	FAC
On opening the said plastic bag, they found 90 ml.	FAC

original choice deluxe whisky 2 pouches, 90 ml.	FAC
Windsor whisky 16 pouches, 180 ml.	FAC
Windsor whisky 8 pouches, old tavern whisky 3 pouches.	FAC
On further enquiry they came to know that the name of the said person is Swamy S/o Jayalinga of Mullur village and he was doing the sale of illicit liquor without any permit on a higher price.	FAC

The complainant immediately by drawing the mahazar has seized the articles and thereafter filed the complaint before the jurisdictional police.	FAC

 7. The counsel for petitioner submits that the allegations made in the complaint are baseless and false complaint has been filed against him.	ARG_PETITIONER
He is innocent, law abiding citizen and has not committed the offence alleged.	ARG_PETITIONER
The petitioner is resident of Sargur Hobli.	ARG_PETITIONER
The petitioner apprehends his arrest by police.	ARG_PETITIONER
The petitioner is ready and willing to abide by the conditions that may be imposed on him.	ARG_PETITIONER

Therefore, prayed for allowing the petition.	ARG_PETITIONER

 8. On the other hand, the learned prosecutor submitted that the police have registered the case against the petitioner U/S. 32, 34 of K.E.Act.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The offences alleged are non bailable.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The petitioner is absconding.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Investigation is under progress.	ARG_RESPONDENT
If the petitioner is released on bail he may commit similar offence, he will come in the way of trial , tampering of witnesses.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Therefore, prayed for rejecting the bail.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 9. Right to life and liberty is a fundamental right guaranteed by Article 21 of the constitution.	STA
No person shall be deprived of his life and personal liberty except according to the procedure established by law.	STA

 10. It is well settled law that when bail is refused personal liberty is deprived.	ANALYSIS
Deprivation of personal liberty only when just, reasonable and permissible in law.	ANALYSIS
Evidence not to be assessed for grant of bail.	ANALYSIS

Factors for consideration are basic approach, prima-facie case, whether accused readily available for trial, and likely-hood of tampering with evidence.	ANALYSIS
Considerations; when case under investigation, investigation over and the chargesheet filed, after conviction at appellate stage, different.	ANALYSIS

 11. On going through the prosecution papers, offences alleged against the petitioner though are non bailable in nature but are not punishable with death or imprisonment of life and is triable by the Court of Magistrate.	ANALYSIS
Further he is ready and willing to abide by the conditions that may be imposed on him.	ANALYSIS
The apprehension of prosecution that the petitioner is going to abscond and prolong investigation and possibility of tampering the prosecution witnesses can be safeguarded by imposing suitable conditions.	ANALYSIS
On looking to the nature, gravity of the offences alleged against the petitioner if by imposing stringent conditions, the petitioner is granted anticipatory bail it would not in any way prejudice the case of prosecution.	RATIO
Consequently, the point No.1 for consideration is answered in the `Affirmative'.
 Point No.2 : 12.	ANALYSIS
In the result, this court proceed to pass the following:- ORDER	RPC
The petition filed under section 438 of Cr.PC.
                  is allowed.	RPC

 The petitioner shall be released on bail on executing his self bond of Rs.25,000/- with one surety for likesum in the event of his arrest in Cr.No.78/2017 of Sargur P.S.
 	RPC
The petitioner shall not tamper the prosecution witnesses in any manner.	RPC

 The petitioner shall co-operate with the investigating agency.	RPC
The petitioner shall appear before the IO as and when called for investigation.	RPC

 The petitioner shall not leave the jurisdiction of trial court till the conclusion of trial without prior permission.	RPC

 [Dictated to the stenographer, transcribed by her, revised and corrected by me and then pronounced in the open court on this the 17th day of July 2017]	NONE
[B.S.Jayashree], VIII Addl. District & Sessions Judge, Mysuru Sitting at Hunsur.	NONE
ORDER PRONOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT (vide separate order) ORDER	RPC
The petition filed under section 438 of Cr.PC.
    is allowed.	RPC

 The petitioner shall be released on bail on executing his self bond of Rs.25,000/- with one surety for likesum in the event of his arrest in Cr.No.78/2017 of Sargur P.S.
 	RPC
The petitioner shall not tamper the prosecution witnesses in any manner.	RPC

 The petitioner shall co-operate with the investigating agency.	RPC
The petitioner shall appear before the IO as and when called for investigation.	RPC

 The petitioner shall not leave the jurisdiction of trial court till the conclusion of trial without prior permission.
 	RPC
