IN THE COURT OF THE SUB DIVISIONAL JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
                                    SUNDARGARH.

                  	PREAMBLE
DISTRICT: SUNDARGARH.	PREAMBLE
PRESENT:	PREAMBLE
Sri C. Gachhayat, LL.M.	PREAMBLE
S.D.J.M.,Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE
2(a) CC CASE No. 280 of 2013	PREAMBLE

                          Trial No. 269 of 2014

                  Date of argument : 02.05.2015	PREAMBLE
Date of Judgment : 08.05.2015

State of Odisha.	PREAMBLE
         .........	PREAMBLE
             Prosecution.	PREAMBLE

                  -vrs.-

1. Victor Toppo, aged about 62 years,	PREAMBLE
Son of Late Lukash Toppo,
        Resident of Village- Handipani,	PREAMBLE
PS. Kinjirkela, Dist. Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE
.........	PREAMBLE
Accused person.	PREAMBLE


          Offence U/s.47(a)(i) Bihar & Orissa Excise Act..	PREAMBLE
Counsel for the State : Sri B.K.Tappo, APP	PREAMBLE
Counsel for the Defence :Sri S.K.Purohit and associates,

                                            Advocate.

                                      J U D G M E N T
1.	PREAMBLE
Accused person stands charged for the offence U/s. 47(a) (i) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act for illegal possession of I.D. liquor.	FAC
2. The story of the prosecution in brief is that on 18.12.2013 at about 9.30 a.m. while the S.I. of Excise, Sadar charge was performing patrolling duty along with staff at Handipani area found that the accused was coming on the road by holding a plastic jerry cane in his hand.	FAC
On suspicion the SI of Excise detained him and on search, recovered three litres of ID liquor containing in a plastic jerry cane from the possession of the accused in presence of witnesses.	FAC
Thereafter he conducted blue litmus test, smell test, hydrometer test and from above tests and his prolonged service experience, he ascertained that the seized article was I.D. liquor.	FAC
Then the S.I. of Excise has enquired into the matter and after completion of his inquiry submitted final PR. against the accused person U/s. 47(a)(i) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act suggesting his trial.	FAC

 3.  The plea of the accused person is one of complete denial and false implication only for statistical purpose.	FAC

 4.  The points for determination of this case are as follows: I) Whether on 18.12.2013 at about 9.30 a.m. on the road at Handipani, the accused was in exclusive and conscious possession of one plastic jerry cane containing three litres of ID liquor without any authority?	ISSUE

 (ii) Whether the seized article is I.D. liquor or not?	ISSUE

 5.  To prove its case, prosecution has examined only three witnesses.	ANALYSIS
Out of whom P.W. 2 is the S.I. of Excise, Sadar charge and P.W. 3 is the accompanying Excise constable.	ANALYSIS
Pw 1 is the cited independent seizure witness to the alleged occurrence.	ANALYSIS
Prosecution proved certain documents marked as Ext. 1 & Ext. 2.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, no oral or documentary evidence adduced on behalf of accused person in his defence.	ANALYSIS

 6.               	ANALYSIS
On analysis of the evidence on record P.W. 2 the S.I. of Excise deposed that on 18.12.2013, while she was performing patrolling duty at Handipani area found that the accused was coming on the road by holding one plastic jerry cane, so on suspicion he detained the accused Victor Toppo and on search recovered three litres of ID liquor from the possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
According to this witness he had conducted blue litmus paper test which turned into red in colour, conducted hydrometer test and thereafter prepared the seizure list.	ANALYSIS
Another official witness PW 3 ( Excise constable) like wise supported the version of P.W 2 in respect of patrolling and seizure of the liquor from the possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
Specific version of both the witnesses is that seizure was conducted by the S.I. of Excise in presence of the witnesses.	ANALYSIS

 Hence, it is necessary to testify the testimony of the official witnesses from independent source for the sake of corroboration.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1, the independent seizure witness in evidence did not support the version of P.W. 2 at all in respect of factum of seizure.	ANALYSIS
According to him nothing was seized in his presence by any Excise staff and he put his signature marked as Ext.1 on the seizure list.	ANALYSIS
Hence there is discrepancy between the testimony of independent seizure witness and the official witnesses.	ANALYSIS

 7.  To prove an offence U/s.47(a)(i) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act, it is the bounden duty of prosecution to establish that the seizure was from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
But in this case the seizure witness did not support the factum of seizure at all.	ANALYSIS

 Further the S.I. of Excise PW 2 in cross-examination admitted that he had not known the accused prior to the incident.	ANALYSIS
The spot is a village road.	ANALYSIS
He further stated that there are many houses near the spot but she does not know the name of the house owner.	ANALYSIS
He further deposed that he has not produced the seized articles before the court nor he sent the same for chemical examination.	ANALYSIS
Though the independent corroboration is not the rule but as the place of seizure is a public place, examination of independent witness is necessary to make the judgment free from any criticism.	ANALYSIS
The plea of the defence is that a false case has been foisted against him only for statistical purpose.	ANALYSIS
There is no material on record to show the exact place of seizure as no sketch map is prepared or proved by the prosecution in this case to establish that the seizure was from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
More so the SI of Excise neither produced the seized liquor before the court nor sent the same for chemical examination.	ANALYSIS
Further, independent seizure witness did not support the factum of seizure.	ANALYSIS
In such premises I hold that the prosecution failed to prove the factum of seizure from the possession of the accused for want of independent corroboration.	ANALYSIS
Hence the prosecution failed to establish the seizure from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
8.              	ANALYSIS
With regard to nature of seized article whether it is liquor or not. P.W. 2 stated that the seized article is I.D. liquor .	ANALYSIS
No document is filed or proved on behalf of prosecution to establish that P.W. 2 is competent enough to opine on the subject of liquor, spirit or intoxicant being an expert U/s. 45 of Indian Evidence Act.	ANALYSIS
No distillery training certificate has been filed on his behalf.	ANALYSIS
Further this witness has admittedly stated in cross-examination that he had not sent the seized article or samples for chemical examination which is one of the surest test.	ANALYSIS
Hence, I hold that prosecution failed to establish that the seized article is I.D. liquor.	ANALYSIS
9.              In view of the whole discussions in foregoing paragraphs, since the prosecution failed to establish that the seizure is from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused, I hold that prosecution failed to establish the charge leveled against the accused person for commission of offence U/s.47(a)(i) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act beyond all reasonable doubt.	RATIO
Hence, I acquit him therefrom under the provisions of Sec.248(1) Cr.P.C.	RPC
He be set at liberty and discharged from his bail bond.	RPC
Enter the case as mistake of fact.	RPC

 The seized liquor kept at Excise Malkhana, Sundargarh be destroyed after four months expiry of appeal period, if no appeal is preferred and in case of appeal subject to the orders of the appellate court.	RPC

 S.D.J.M.,Sundargarh.
                                          08.05.2015	NONE
The judgment is transcribed and typed to my dictation, corrected by me and pronounced in the open court on this the 8th day of May, 2015 and given under my hand and seal of the court.
 S.D.J.M. Sundargarh.
 List	NONE
of P.Ws.examined:	NONE
P.W. 1	NONE
   Anup Tirkey P.W.2.    Indrajeet Sahoo P.W.3.    Rabindralal Munda List of D.Ws examined: N i l.	NONE
List of Exts.marked for the complnt.
 Ext.1     Signature of PW 1.
 Ext.1/1   Seizure list Ext.1/2   Signature of PW 2.
 Ext.1/3.  Tested blue lit mus paper.
 Ext. 2.   Hydrometer test chart.
 Ext.2/1.  Signature of PW 1.	NONE

 Ext.1/4	NONE
  Signature of PW 3.	NONE
List of Exts.marked for the defence: N i l.
 S.D.J.M., Sundargarh.	NONE
