IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE FIRST CLASS-III,

                                     MYSORE

                	PREAMBLE
Dated this the 10th day of April 2008	PREAMBLE
PRESENT :  Smt. Vineetha P Shetty, B.Sc., LL.B.,

           III JMFC., Mysore.

           C.C. No.1021/2007

Complainant: State by Nazarbad Police.

                               (By Asst. Public Prosecutor.)
           Vs.

Accused:   1. Ummar S/o Yasin Sab, 40
                years, No.6, `C' Block, Gowsiya
                Nagar, 9th Cross, Masjid Road,
                Mysore.

           2.	PREAMBLE
Althaf, S/o Abdul Ameed Khan,
                  33 years, behind Beedi	PREAMBLE

                  Quarters, Gowsiya Nagar,
                  Mysore.	PREAMBLE
3. Akram @ Syed Akram, S/o
                  Syed Apeez, 28 years, Revenue
                  Site,	PREAMBLE
Gowsiya Nagar, Mysore	PREAMBLE
(By Sri C M Jagadeesh
           Advocate for A-1 and A-2 and
           A-3 is in J.C.)

                                JUDGMENT	PREAMBLE

       Sub	FAC
-Inspector of Police attached to Nazarbad Police Station has filed the charge-sheet against the accused no.1 to 3 for the offences punishable under section 86 Karnataka Forest Act read with section 379 Indian Penal Code.	FAC
2. The case of prosecution in brief is that on 20/21.11.1999, in between 11.00 p.m. to 6.00 a.m., accused committed theft of sandal wood from the bungalow of CW2 Bagi B Menon situated on Lalithmahal Road within the jurisdiction of Nazarbad Police Station, and committed the offence punishable under section 86 of Karnataka Forest Act read with section 379 of Indian Penal Code.
 3.	FAC
After submission of charge-sheet, cognizance was taken.	FAC

   Accused no.1 and 2 are on bail.	FAC
Accused no.3 is in judicial custody.	FAC
They engaged the advocate for their defence.	FAC
The copies of the charge-sheet were furnished to them.	FAC
Since the offences under Forest Act are triable by the Court of Sessions, this case was transferred to the Hon'ble Court of Sessions.	FAC
The Hon'ble Fast Track Court-III, Mysore, vide order in S.C.No.265/2007 transferred this case to this Court for its disposal in accordance with law.	FAC
Thereafter, after hearing both sides, charge for the above offence was framed, readover and explained, for which, accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.	FAC
On behalf of the prosecution, PWs 1 and 2 are examined and Exhibits P.1 to 9, Ex.P.1(a), Ex.P.6(a), Ex.P.7(a), Ex.P.8(a), Ex.P.9(a) and also MO1 is marked.	FAC
Accused	FAC
are examined under section 313 Criminal Procedure Code.	FAC
They have denied the evidence which appeared against them.	FAC
Heard the arguments addressed by the learned APP for the State and learned counsel for the accused.	FAC

 4. The following points arise for determination: 1.	ISSUE
Whether the prosecution proves that on 20/21.11.1999, in between 11.00 p.m. to 6.00 a.m., accused committed theft of sandal wood from the bungalow of CW2 Bagi B Menon, situated on Lalithmahal Road within the jurisdiction of Nazarbad Police Station?	ISSUE

 2. What order?	ISSUE

 5. My findings on the above points are; Point No.1:  In the Negative Point No.2:  As per final order for the following; R E A S O N S 6.	ANALYSIS
Points No.1: The prosecution in order to prove its case has examined only 2 witnesses.	ANALYSIS
PW1 Ankaiah was working as the Sub-Inspector of Police, C.C.B. Wing at the relevant time.	ANALYSIS

 He has deposed that on 12.12.1999, he along with his staff Jayasheelan and Mahadeva were appointed for tracing the accused and property in Crime No.74/99 and accordingly, he along with his staff was on raid near Mandi Mohalla and Bamboo Bazaar, Mysore and when they reached near Handihall, Yadavagiri, accused who were present at the spot, on seeing the police tried to run away from the place and therefore, they caught hold of the accused.	ANALYSIS
He found two pieces of seesaw, a chopper and a gunny-bag with them and seized the same from them.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter, he brought the accused and seized properties to C.C.B. Office and submitted a report, true copy of which is marked as per Ex.P.2.	ANALYSIS
The true copy of seizure mahazar is as per Ex.P.1.	ANALYSIS

It is in his evidence that he recorded the voluntary statement of accusedno.1 to 3 as per Ex.P.3 to 5 respectively.	ANALYSIS
He has deposed that accused informed him that they have kept the sandal wood tree, sandal chips and billets in an old house situated Rajiv Nagara, and therefore, he went to the house situated at II Stage, 6th Cross, Rajiv Nagar and seized 9 sandal wood billets and sandal wood chips kept in a plastic bag in the presence of panchas namely Chand and Anwar Pasha.	ANALYSIS
However, he has specifically stated that the sandal wood chips and 9 billets seized at the instance of voluntary statement of accused are not related to this case.	ANALYSIS
The relevant portion in his evidence reads " UAzsz ZP v 9 vAqU F PgtP AAgĪŢ".
 7. During cross-examination	ANALYSIS
, suggestion was posed to him that accused were brought from their house and false case has been lodged against them and no sandalwood tree, sandal chips and sandal billets whatsoever were seized from the accused.	ANALYSIS
PW1 has admitted that he has nor made any mark on the properties seized and that he has not obtained the signatures of the panchas on a slip required to be pasted upon the properties seized.	ANALYSIS
8. PW2 Kunjappa is the Sub-Inspector of Police working at Nazarbad Police Station at the relevant time.	ANALYSIS
He deposed that on 22.11.1999, at 4.05 p.m., he received the complaint as per Ex.P.6 from one Puttaraju and registered the case and submitted first information report to the Court as per Ex.P.7.
   	ANALYSIS
Thereafter, he conducted the spot mahazar as per Ex.P.8.	ANALYSIS
It is in his evidence that at the time of spot mahazar, it was found that the sandal wood tree measuring 52" x12" was cut and the said tree was situated behind the house of one Bagin Menon.	ANALYSIS
He deposed that he cut the tree into two pieces with the help of coolie workers and seized the same.	ANALYSIS
He identified the two pieces of sandal wood as per MO1.	ANALYSIS
He has deposed that complainant and one Ramu signed the spot cum seizure mahazar.	ANALYSIS
He sent the sandal wood to the Conservator of Forest and received the report as per Ex.P.9.	ANALYSIS
He filed the charge-sheet after completion of investigation by the C.C.B.
police.	ANALYSIS
Suggestion posed to him that spot cum seizure mahazar was prepared in the Police Station was denied by him.	ANALYSIS
9. Inspite of issuance of repeated warrants, prosecution has not secured the presence of remaining witnesses to prove its case.	ANALYSIS
On appreciation of entire evidence on record, it is seen that seizure of MO1 at the instance of accused is not proved beyond reasonable doubt.	ANALYSIS
PW1 has not stated anything about MO1 though PW2 has spoken about MO1.	ANALYSIS
Evidence of PW2 would clearly show that he seized MO1 from the spot at the time of spot cum seizure mahazar and not from the possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
Absolutely, there is no evidence to show that MO1 was seized at the instance of the accused.	ANALYSIS
As such, there is no connection whatsoever with the property seized in this case and the accused.	RATIO
Non- examination of spot cum seizure mahazar witnesses is fatal to the case of prosecution.	RATIO
The evidence placed by the prosecution is not sufficient to hold the accused guilty of the alleged offences.	RATIO
10. In the circumstances and for the reasons stated above, I hold that the prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of accused no.1 to 3 beyond reasonable doubt for the offence punishable under section 86 Karnataka Forest Act read with section 379 Indian Penal Code.	RPC
Therefore, I answer point no.1 in the negative.	RPC

 11. Point No.2	RPC
: In the result, I proceed to pass the following; O R D E R Under section 248(1) Criminal Procedure Code, accused 1 to 3 are acquitted of the offence punishable under section 86 Karnataka Forest Act read with section 379 Indian Penal Code.
                   	RPC
Bail bond of accused no.1 and 2 shall stand discharged.	RPC

                   Accusedno.3 shall be set at liberty forthwith, if he is not required to be produced in any other case.	RPC

 MO1 is ordered to be returned to the Forest Officer attached to Government Sandal Wood Koti, Mysore.	RPC
However, the order regarding disposal of MO1 shall be given in to effect after the appeal period is over.	RPC
(Dictated to the Stenographer typed script corrected and the same is pronounced by me in the open Court on 10.4.2008)	NONE
(VINEETHA P SHETTY), III JMFC., Mysore.	NONE
ANNEXURE	NONE
Witnesses examined for the prosecution: PW1 : Ankaia PW2 : Kunjappa Documents marked for the prosecution: Ex.P1 : Mahazar copy Ex.P.1(a): Signature of PW1 Ex.P2 : Report Ex.P3 : Voluntary statement of the accused Ex.P.4 : Voluntary statement of the accused Ex.P.5 : Voluntary statement of the accused Ex.P.6 : Complaint Ex.P.6(a): Signature of PW2 Ex.P.7 : First Information Report Ex.P.7(a): Signature of PW2 Ex.P.8 : Seizure mahazar Ex.P.8(a): Signature of PW2 Ex.P.9: Report Ex.P.9(a): Signature of PW2 List of Material Objects marked: MO 1 : 2 Sandal wood pieces (VINEETHA P SHETTY), III JMFC., Mysore	NONE
