IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY	PREAMBLE

                        BENCH AT AURANGABAD	PREAMBLE


Criminal Appeal No.447 of 2012	PREAMBLE


Nilesh Baburao Gitte,	PREAMBLE
                             ]	PREAMBLE

Age 27 years,                                      ]	PREAMBLE
Occupation : agriculture,                          ]	PREAMBLE
R/o Talani, Taluka Ambajogai,                      ]	PREAMBLE

                                                   ]	PREAMBLE
.. Appellant.	PREAMBLE

District Beed.	PREAMBLE


Versus

The State of Maharashtra,                          ]	PREAMBLE

Through Police Station Officer,                    ]
Police Station Bardapur,                           ]
                                                   ]	PREAMBLE
.. Respondent.	PREAMBLE

Taluka Ambajogai, District Beed.	PREAMBLE


                                         --------
Shri. B.R. Waramaa, Advocate, for the appellant.	PREAMBLE
Shri. S.G. Nandedkar, Additional Public Prosecutor, for the
respondent.

                                         --------

        WITH

	PREAMBLE
Criminal Appeal No.502 of 2012	PREAMBLE


Balasaheb s/o Gangadhar Gitte,                     ]
Age 28 years,                                      ]
Occupation : agriculture,                          ]
R	PREAMBLE
/o Talani, Taluka Ambajogai	PREAMBLE
,                      ]
                                                   ]	PREAMBLE
.. Appellant.	PREAMBLE

District Beed.	PREAMBLE


Versus

The State of Maharashtra,                          ]
Through Police Station Officer,	PREAMBLE
                   ]	PREAMBLE

Police Station Bardapur,	PREAMBLE
                          ]	PREAMBLE

                                                   ]	PREAMBLE
.. Respondent.	PREAMBLE

Taluka Ambajogai, District Beed.	PREAMBLE

                                         --------

	PREAMBLE
Shri. N.S. Ghanekar, Advocate, for the appellant.	PREAMBLE
Shri. S.G. Nandedkar, Additional Public Prosecutor, for the
respondent.

                                         --------

                 CORAM:	PREAMBLE
NARESH H PATIL &	PREAMBLE

                                       A.I.S. CHEEMA, JJ.	PREAMBLE
Judgment reserved on : 09th July 2013
    Judgment pronounced on : 23rd July 2013

JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE
(Per Naresh H Patil, J.) 1)	NONE
The appellants have challenged the judgment and order of conviction for an offence punishable under section 302 of Indian Penal Code dated 22nd June 2012 passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge-2, Ambajogai, in Sessions Case No.42 of 2011.	RLC
The appellants were sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs.2000/-each, in default, to suffer simple imprisonment for three months.	RLC

 2)  The prosecution case, in brief, is as under :--	FAC
On 22-7-2010 at 11.00 a.m. the Deputy Superintendent of Police Smt. Swati Bhore received an anonymous phone call informing that funeral of deceased Sunanda Baburao Gitte was to be carried out.	FAC
The officer intimated Police Inspector Shri. Kale of Parali Rural Police Station to visit the spot at Talani village.	FAC
The police rushed to the spot.	FAC
They found that preparations for cremation of deceased Sunanda had begun.	FAC
They enquired and saw the dead body.	FAC
After inspection they found ligature marks and injury on back side of skull on the dead body of Sunanda.	FAC

 The police carried inquest and post mortem on the dead body on the spot. PW-9 Sunil Shrinivas Birla, Police Inspector, was on duty as Station Diary Officer of Bardapur Police Station.	FAC
He received message from Police Inspector Kale of Parali Rural Police Station that one Sunanda died at Talani village in Poose vicinity and her death was doubtful.	FAC
He was informed by Police Inspector Kale that the spot was within the jurisdiction of Bardapur Police Station, therefore, he was called.	FAC
He reached the spot and at that time P.S.I. Bankar, A.P.I. Kale and their staff members were present there.	FAC
He saw that near wooden plank prepared for cremation, dead body of Sunanda was lying besides it.	FAC
The officer noticed ligature mark on neck, injury to back side of head and rope mark on hands and leg of the deceased.	FAC
The police officer had already started making inquest panchanama (Exhibit 18).	FAC
Post mortem on the dead body was carried at the same place.	FAC
After return to Parali Rural Police station PW-9 registered the offence himself on behalf of the State and carried the investigation.	FAC
The complaint is at Exhibit 58.	FAC
The officer thereafter prepared the spot panchanama (Exhibit-17) and during investigation recorded statements of witnesses.	FAC
In the memorandum of accused Nilesh and Balasaheb the prosecution case suggests that Nilesh had taken out an iron rod and his clothes which were used at the time of commission of offence.	FAC
These article were seized under panchanamas at Exhibits 20, 21 & 22.	FAC

 Memorandum of accused Balasaheb is at Exhibit 23.	FAC
The articles from Nilesh and Balasaheb were seized.	FAC
A nylon rope was seized from Balasaheb.	FAC
Muddemal property was sent for chemical analysis by letter Exhibit 59.	FAC
A letter was sent to the Executive Magistrate for preparing map of spot of offence on 9-8-2010.	FAC
The police seized copy of 7/12 extract during interrogation of Sudhakar Nagargoje.	FAC

 Further investigation was handed over to Police Sub Inspector Rathod.	FAC
PSI Rathod thereafter investigated the matter and filed charge-sheet against the accused persons in Crime No.39 of 2010.	FAC
The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.	FAC

 3)        The prosecution examined 11 witnesses.	FAC

 4)        The appellant-Nilesh Baburao Gitte is real son of deceased Sunanda.	FAC
PW1-Dinkar Manikrao Nagargoje is paternal cousin of deceased Sunanda.	FAC
He had seen dead body of Sunanda near her house in the field.	FAC
According to the witness, brothers of Sunanda, Prabhakar and Sudhakar were not present to attend the last rites of Sunanda.	FAC

 5)        PW-2-Sattar Pashasab Patwekar, who was examined as panch of recovery of articles, tuned hostile.	FAC
In the cross-examination of the witness by the State he deposed that Nilesh had taken out iron pipe and his clothes from wooden Diwan.	FAC
The police seized those clothes by drawing memorandum in his presence.	FAC
In the cross-examination by the defence the witness deposed that he was looking after political work of Sudhakar, brother of the deceased.	FAC
He had attended last rites of Sunanda.	FAC

 6)  PW-3 is Sudhakar Bhagwanrao Nagargoje, one of the most important witnesses in this case.	FAC
He happens to be real brother of deceased Sunanda.	FAC
In his deposition the witness stated that the appellant Nilesh contacted him on phone and informed that his sister Sunanda had died.	FAC

 He could not attend the last rites.	FAC
According to the witness, his sister was murdered.	FAC
Accused Nilesh was the beneficiary of the property which was inherited by Sunanda or which was to be allotted to her share in family partition.	FAC
The witness came on the next day for immersion of Asthi of Sunanda and thereafter visited Parali Police Station.	FAC
He stated that at Parali Police Station the police had shown him a copy of 7/12 extract which had blood stains.	FAC
The said copy was recovered from accused Nilesh.	FAC

 In the 7/12 extract the land was shown to have been owned by Sunanda.	FAC
According to the witness, Sunanda was murdered for her property.	FAC

 The defence cross-examined him.	FAC
He deposed that in family partition his sister Sunanda got 15 guntha land situated at Ahmedpur.	FAC
He admitted that there was no mutation entry made in the record in respect of family partition.	FAC
He referred to filing of Regular Civil Suit No.205 of 2003 against his brother Prabhakar in Civil Court at Ahmedpur.	FAC
The distance between Ahmedpur and Talani is about 40 to 50 kms.	FAC
He denied the suggestion that appellant Nilesh was not demanding property from him and his mother.	FAC
He even claimed ignorance that father of Nilesh had gone for "Chaar Dhaam Yatra".
 7)  PW-4 is Dadarao Kondiram Bankar, Police Sub Inspector, who was, at the relevant time, working as Police Sub Inspector, Police Station Parali Rural.	FAC
When he was on duty on 22-7-2010 information was received from Vidyanand Kale.	FAC
He visited village Talani.	FAC
Behind the house of Baburao Gitte, father of appellant Nilesh, he noticed that preparations for cremation of Sunanda were being made.	FAC
He inspected the dead body and found injuries on the person of the deceased.	FAC
Black colour mark was noticed on her neck and injury on her head.	FAC
He made inquest panchanama of the dead body and made arrangement for post mortem on the dead body.	FAC
Articles 1 to 12 are the photographs which the witness had identified.	FAC
The doctor had given provisional certificate about cause of death of Sunanda.	FAC
As the offence had taken place in the jurisdiction of Bardapur Police Station, he handed over the investigation accordingly.	FAC

 In his cross-examination certain details in respect of investigation were asked which are not of material nature.	FAC

 8)  PW-6 is Dr. Solunke Radhakishan Sarjerao, who conducted post mortem on the dead body on 22-7-2010 at village Talani between 3.10 p.m. and 4.35 p.m. According to the witness the deceased was 50 year old female.
 	FAC
According to the doctor, condition of body of Sunanda was well nourished and cold.	FAC
Rigor mortise was present in the whole body.	FAC
Post mortem lividity was fully developed.	FAC

 There was no sign of decomposition.	FAC
Face was swollen and congested.	FAC
There was ligature mark encircled the neck 22 cm in length and half cm in breadth.	FAC
It was absent from back side of neck.	FAC
It was at the level of thyroid cartilage.	FAC

 The doctor has noticed following injuries on the person of the deceased:-- (i) No evidence of injury to external genitals.
(ii) Upper extremity flexed at the elbow joint.
(iii) Fingers were flexed.
 (iv) Lower extremity were extended.	FAC
There was ligature mark encircled the neck 22 cm in length and half cm in breadth.	FAC
It was absent on back side of neck.	FAC
It was at the level of thyroid cartilage.	FAC
The ligature mark was horizontal dry, hard, brown in colour and depressed groove.	FAC
On the dissection of ligature mark the subcutaneous tissue is echymossed.	FAC
There was hemorrhage to the thyroid cartilage.	FAC
(v) There were abrasion on the chin 5 cm in length and half cm in width.	FAC
Extending body of mandible towards right side 6 cm length and half cm in width.	FAC

 (vi) There was abrasion on left side of neck 8 to 9 cm in length and half cm in width.	FAC
There is encircle left side of neck.	FAC
Abrasion marks absent on elbow in front of neck below the thyroid cartilage.	FAC

 (vii) Abrasion on right side of neck. 4 to 5 cm in length and half cm in width.	FAC
Below the level of thyroid cartilage, encircled right side of the neck, It absent in front of the neck.	FAC

 (viii) There is imprint abrasion on the right wrist joint 7 to 8 cm in length and half cm in width and it absent on back side of the wrist.	FAC
(ix) Imprint abrasion on right scalp muscles below the knee joint on the outer side 22 to 24 cm in length and half cm in width.	FAC

 (x) Imprint abrasion on left calf mussels below the knee joint on outer side i.e. 23 to 24 cm in length and half cm in width and it absent from inner side.	FAC

 (xi) Abrasion on right side of upper and outer gluteal region extending 12 cm in length and 3 cm in width.	FAC
Above and over side right side back.	FAC

 (xii) Abrasion mark on both thigh reddish brown in colour.	FAC

 The doctor noticed following injuries under the scalp:- (i) Contused lacerated wound on right side of the occipital region over the scalp.	FAC

 (ii) It parallel to above injury over the scalp at right occipital region 2 x half cm.	FAC

 The injuries were anti mortem and caused within 24 hours.	FAC
The contents of the post mortem (Exhibit 36) were proved.	FAC
It was stated that, the ligature mark and injuries may be possible by using rope (article 9) shown to the doctor.	FAC
The witness was shown iron rod/pipe.	FAC
He opined that injuries to the scalp may be possible by iron pipe (article 4).	FAC

 9)       PW-7 is Vidyadhar Murlidhar Kale, API of Parali Rural Police Station.	FAC
He was on duty on 22-7-2010 at Parali Rural Police Station.	FAC
He proceeded to the spot and saw the dead body of deceased Sunanda.	FAC
There was strangulation mark on neck and injury on backside of scull and blood was oozing from the injuries.	FAC
He carried inquest panchanama.	FAC
He was present at the time of post mortem of the dead body.	FAC
In his cross-examination the witness deposed that he did not make any entry in the station diary about accidental death of the deceased.	FAC

 Dy.S.P. Smt. Bhore, API Birla reached the spot after the witness reached there within one and half hour.	FAC
His statement was recorded by the investigating officer PSI Rathod on 15th January 2011.	FAC
He denied the suggestion that during investigation there was pressure of political leaders like Mr. Gopinath Mundhe, Dhananjay Mundhe, Pankaja Mundhe and Sudhakar Nagargoje.	FAC

 10)  PW-8 is Swati Rambhau Bhore, who was Deputy Superintendent of Police at the relevant time.	FAC
She reached the spot on receiving an anonymous call.	FAC
She had seen the dead body.	FAC
She denied the suggestion that she received phone call of Sudhakar Nagargoje.	FAC
She denied suggestion that at the instance of Sudhakar Nagargoje the appellant Nilesh was falsely implicated.	FAC

 11)  PW-9 is Sunil Shrinivas Birla, who was Police Inspector at the relevant time.	FAC
He was on duty at Bardapur Police Station.	FAC
He registered the crime on behalf of the State and carried out the investigation.	FAC
He has seized incriminating articles under panchanama and sent the muddemal to the Chemical Analyser.	FAC
In his cross- examination the witness deposed that accidental death report was not recorded in this case.	FAC
He deposed that from the date of registration of crime till completion of investigation he did not have any doubt on anybody.	FAC
He recorded statement of Sudhakar on 10-9-2010.	FAC
During investigation the witness recovered iron rod under seizure panchanama from the house of Motiram Gitte.	FAC
The witness volunteered that accused Nilesh was residing in the house of Motiram Gitte on rental basis.	FAC
To the question put up by the court the witness answered as under : Question : From which document from case file you came to know that accused Nilesh was tenant in house of Motiram Gitte ?	FAC

 Answer: According to documents accused Nilesh was residing in Motiram Gitte, but it was not revealed that he was his tenant.	FAC

 The witness deposed that, he made efforts to record statement of husband of deceased Sunanda, Dr. Baburao Gitte, but he was reluctant to give statement.	FAC
The witness met Dr. Baburao Gitte 3 to 4 days after the incident of offence at his house.	FAC
He further deposed that the house where the incident of offence took place is owned by accused Nilesh.	FAC
The witness did not collect any further documentary evidence in respect of ownership of the house.	FAC
The witness denied that there was pressure of political leaders like Mr. Gopinath Mundhe and Dhananjay Mundhe.	FAC
The witness denied that at the instance of Sudhakar Nagargoje and Dy. S.P. Bhore he was making false statement.	FAC

 12)  PW-10 is Narsing Patloba Gitte who was working as Circle Officer at Ghatnandur Circle.	FAC
He prepared map of spot of offence in Crime No.39/2010 which is at Exhibit 65.	FAC

 13)  PW-11 is Shesharao Megha Rathod, Police Sub Inspector, who filed charge sheet.	FAC
He denied suggestion that Prabhakar and Sudhakar wanted to grab the property of the deceased and they have falsely involved the son of the deceased.	FAC

 14)  The learned counsel for the appellant Shri. B.R.
 Warma submitted that there is no motive for Nilesh to commit the crime.	ARG_PETITIONER
There is no eye witness to the incident.	ARG_PETITIONER

 PW Sudhakar, brother of deceased Sunanda is deliberately deposing against Nilesh as he has interest in the property which may be inherited by Nilesh as his mother's property.	ARG_PETITIONER
The police machinery was under pressure of political heavyweights.	ARG_PETITIONER
The investigation is not carried out fairly.	ARG_PETITIONER
The investigation officers have hurriedly conducted the investigation which has caused serious prejudice to the appellant Nilesh.	ARG_PETITIONER
The articles seized like iron rod, rope are not incriminating in nature.	ARG_PETITIONER
The appellant Nilesh was not residing with his mother.	ARG_PETITIONER
The panch witnesses are tutored and except PW-3 Sudhakar, who is highly interested in prosecution, there is no independent witness whose evidence is recorded by the prosecution.	ARG_PETITIONER
The chain of circumstance is not complete.	ARG_PETITIONER
Therefore, it be held that the prosecution has failed to establish the case against Nilesh beyond reasonable doubt.	ARG_PETITIONER
The learned counsel in support of his submissions, has placed reliance on the following judgments.	ARG_PETITIONER

 (1) State of Punjab v. Karnail Singh, AIR 2003 SC 3609.
 (2) Vithal Tukaram More v. State of Maharashtra, AIR 2002 SC 2715.
 (3) Vipul Chandrakant Jain v. The State of Maharashtra, Criminal Appeal No.628 of 2002 decided on 19th January 2005.
 (4) Mulak Raj v. State of Haryana, AIR 1996 SC 2868.
 (5) Raj Kumar Singh @ Raju @ Batya v. State of Rajasthan, 2013(4) Supreme 131.
 (6) Datta Ganpat Chandode v. State of Maharashtra, 2012 All MR (Cri) 1698.
 15)  	ARG_PETITIONER
The learned counsel appearing for appellant  Balasaheb	ARG_PETITIONER
in support of his submissions, has placed reliance on the reported judgment in Ashraf Hussain Shah v. State of Maharashtra, 1996 Cri.L.J. 3147.
 	ARG_PETITIONER
We have perused the judgments cited supra by the learned counsel.	NONE

 16)  The learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the State submitted that there is strong motive emerging from the evidence and the same is in respect of immovable property allotted to the share of deceased Sunanda which was of considerable value.	ARG_RESPONDENT
A civil suit was contested between the brothers of the deceased Sunanda.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The defence version is not reliable and believable that the appellant Nilesh was not residing with his mother.	ARG_RESPONDENT
In stead, it was suggested that as father of the appellant Nilesh, being Government Medical Officer, was engaged in transferable job, so he had made arrangement wherein his wife would stay at the village along with his son.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Recovery of articles made by the police is incriminating in nature.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 The medical evidence supports the prosecution case.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It was submitted that conduct of the appellant Nilesh has to be minutely and seriously viewed.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Here is a son who had committed murder of his mother by severely beating and strangulating.	ARG_RESPONDENT
If the police had not arrived at the spot at the relevant time the appellant-Nilesh would have cremated his mother and the evidence would have disappeared.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 17)  We have perused the entire evidence.	ANALYSIS
We find that the conduct of the appellant Nilesh is blameworthy.	ANALYSIS

 No explanation is coming forward as to why in spite of receiving serious injuries by the deceased the appellant Nilesh, son of the deceased, made arrangements for cremating his mother.	ANALYSIS
Soon before the dead body was to be taken for cremation the police reached the spot and could witness the injuries on the person of deceased Sunanda.	ANALYSIS
The appellant Nilesh did not brother to lodge any formal report to the police.	ANALYSIS
No intimation was given to anybody in respect of injuries suffered by his mother.	ANALYSIS
His keeping silence goes against his plea of innocence.	ANALYSIS
In normal circumstance, son would certainly raise hue and cry after seeing his mother in injured condition.	ANALYSIS
She had died unnatural death.	ANALYSIS
The medical evidence has supported the prosecution version.	ANALYSIS
In the statement under section 313 of the Criminal Procedure Code the appellant Nilesh had stated thus : Q.No.46.	ANALYSIS
Why witnesses are deposing against you ?	ANALYSIS

 Ans.:  I say that land in name of my mother situated at Ahmedpur which having plotings.	ANALYSIS
My maternal uncle (Mama) Sudhakar Nagargoje wants to grab that land standing in name of mother.	ANALYSIS

       Witnesses are telling false story at instance of my maternal uncle Sudhakar Nagargoje."
 18)    	ANALYSIS
Even if for the sake of argument it is believed that Sudhakar had involved appellant Nilesh in the commission of murder of his mother but the question remains as to why the appellant maintained silence throughout and instead showed haste in preparation for cremating his mother.	ANALYSIS

 19)  From the evidence we can gather that though the appellant had taken a plea that he was not residing with his mother but, instead, residing in the house of one Motiram Gitte as a tenant, the plea is not convincing.	ANALYSIS
The house where mother of the deceased was residing was owned by appellant Nilesh.	ANALYSIS
There is no reason coming forward as to why appellant Nilesh was said to be residing separately from his mother.	ANALYSIS
When the evidence indicates that father of the appellant Nilesh had made this arrangement so that the mother and son could stay together as he was discharging his duties as a Government Medical Officer, there is no convincing reason to accept the plea of the defence in respect of separate residence of Nilesh.	ANALYSIS

 20)  The other strong circumstance going against the appellant Nilesh is the post mortem report which indicates that the deceased was mercilessly beaten and thereafter strangulated.	ANALYSIS
The cause of death is asphyxia due to strangulation.	ANALYSIS
It was an unnatural death.	ANALYSIS
The appellant Nilesh has not explained anything regarding the circumstances resulting into death of his mother.	ANALYSIS

 21)  The villagers had gathered and the dead body was to be taken for cremation.	ANALYSIS
Till this moment the appellant has not whispered to anybody regarding the circumstances in which the deceased suffered injuries or whether the appellant had any suspicion or doubt about conduct of any other persons who might have caused these injuries to his mother.	ANALYSIS
The testimony of PW-3 Sudhakar clearly blames the appellant-Nilesh and indicates that he was having interest in the property, which was a valuable property belonging to his mother.	ANALYSIS

 22)  Another intriguing feature in the case is silence of the husband of deceased Sunanda.	ANALYSIS
The police officers tried for three to four times to elicit from husband of the deceased Sunanda but he was reluctant to make any statement.	ANALYSIS
This further causes shadow on the plea of innocence raised by the appellant-Nilesh.	ANALYSIS

 23)  On behalf of the defence it was submitted that PW-3 - Sudhakar did not attend the funeral of deceased Sunanda.	ANALYSIS
By that conduct of PW-3 Sudhakar we cannot discard the prosecution version for upholding innocence of the appellant Nilesh.	ANALYSIS

 24)  We do not find any convincing reasoning to hold that due to political pressure the police falsely involved the appellant.	ANALYSIS
Appellant Nilesh had ample opportunity and time to say something till fag end of the trial regarding the incident in-question but except blaming PW-3 Sudhakar the appellant Nilesh preferred not to say anything further.	ANALYSIS
From the prosecution evidence we do not notice that any other person residing in the village had grudge against the deceased to mercilessly beat her and strangulate her.	ANALYSIS
No other person was shown to be the beneficiary if Sunanda is done to death.	ANALYSIS
If it is presumed that PW-3 Sudhakar was interested in involving the appellant Nilesh in the crime so as to grab the property of Sunanda then just because Nilesh is involved in the crime his legal rights to the property do not get extinguished.	ANALYSIS

 Therefore, theory propounded by the defence on that count is also not convincing and sustainable.	ANALYSIS

 25)  Considering the facts of the case certain inferences are required to be drawn to the extent of conduct of the appellant Nilesh.	ANALYSIS
The haste shown to cremate his mother speaks for itself and indicates guilty mind of the appellant  Nilesh.	ANALYSIS

 26)  As regards the appellant  Balasaheb, we find that he has been involved with allegation that as he had helped appellant Nilesh in commission of the crime.	ANALYSIS

 Except recovery at the instance of appellant Balasaheb, the prosecution has failed to bring home guilty of Balasaheb.	ANALYSIS
Recovery is not incriminating in nature.	ANALYSIS
The prosecution evidence is lacking to establish active involvement of appellant-Balasaheb Gangadhar Gitte.	ANALYSIS

 There is no motive for Balasaheb to assist appellant-Nilesh in commission of the crime.	ANALYSIS

 27)  We have perused the reasoning adopted by the trial Court in convicting both the appellants.	ANALYSIS
We are not convinced with the reasoning of the trial Court in convicting and sentencing the appellant Balasaheb Gitte.	ANALYSIS

 At the same time, the trial Court has scanned the evidence properly and reached appropriate conclusions while convicting and sentencing appellant-Nilesh Baburao Gitte.	ANALYSIS

 28)  We have perused the case law submitted by the learned counsel Shri. Warma in respect of the principles that in a case based on circumstantial evidence, the motive plays vital role.	RATIO
The chain of circumstances must be so complete so as to clearly point out that the appellant alone must the guilty person.	RATIO
These circumstances shall be conclusively established and in case the chain of circumstances is not complete then benefit goes to the accused.	RATIO
Considering the facts, circumstances and the evidence brought on record we are of the opinion that, the conviction and sentence awarded by the trial Court against the appellant Nilesh Baburao Gitte is required to be confirmed whereas, we are not inclined to confirm the finding of guilt recorded by the trial Court against the appellant  Balasaheb Gangadhar Gitte.	RATIO

 ORDER 29)  Criminal Appeal No.447 of 2012 is dismissed.	RPC

 30)  Criminal Appeal No.502 of 2012 is allowed.	RPC
The judgment and order dated 22-6-2012 passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge-2, Ambajogai in Sessions Case No.42 of 2011 convicting the appellant  Balasaheb Gangadhar Gitte for an offence punishable under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code and sentencing him to suffer imprisonment for life and to pay fine of Rs.2,000/-,in default, to suffer simple imprisonment for three months	RPC
is quashed and set aside.	RPC
The appellant Balasaheb Gangadhar Gitte is acquitted of the offence for which he was tried.	RPC
He be set at liberty forthwith if not required in any other case.	RPC
Fine amount, if paid, be refunded to him.	RPC
Sd/-                       Sd/- (A.I.S. CHEEMA, J.)      (NARESH H PATIL, J.) rsl	NONE
