IN THE COURT OF THE IInd ADDITIONAL SESSIONS
                       JUDGE,ROURKELA.	PREAMBLE


Present:

          Smt. Minati Kumari Panda,LL.B.,
          IInd Additional Sessions Judge,
          Rourkela.

          Dated, this the 30th day of January, 2014.	PREAMBLE


          S.T.CASE NO.50/39/12 of 2012-13.	PREAMBLE
(Arising out of G.R. Case No.1601 of 2011, corresponding to Biramitrapur P.S. Case No.135
dated 04.10.2011, committed by the learned S.D.J.M.,Panposh to the Court of Session and
subsequently transferred to this Court for disposal according to law.)

State of Odisha                          ..... Prosecution.
                              -versus-

1.Sanjay Rana, aged about 19 years,
  son of Nala Rana.

2.Keshab Rana, aged about 33 years,
   son of Late Banamali Rana.

Both of Padampur Colony Tola,            .... Accused persons.
P.S.-Biramitrapur, District-Sundargarh.

Appearances:          : Sri R.N.Senapati, Addl. P.P.
       For the State

For the Defence       : Sri A.C.Bisoi, Advocates.

Date of Argument      : 22nd day of January, 2015.	PREAMBLE

Date of Judgment      : 30th day of January, 2015.	PREAMBLE


OFFENCES UNDER SECTION 302/34 OF INDIAN PENAL CODE, 1860.

                      J U D G M E N T	PREAMBLE

 1. The above named accused persons stand charged under section 302 r/w 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.
 2.	FAC
The case of the prosecution in brief is as follows :- The deceased Hagru Rana is the son of the informant.	FAC
On 3.10.2011at about 8 P.M. one Keshab Rana (accused) came to the house of the informant and informed his daughter-in-law namely, Chandrika Rana that Hagru was lying with bleeding injuries near the house of one Bama Majhi.	FAC
On receiving the said information they went to the spot and found the deceased was lying there with bleeding injuries.	FAC
They shifted him to the medical, where the doctor declared him as dead.	FAC
The informant suspected that the accused persons namely, Keshaba Rana and Sanjay Rana have committed murder of his son Hagru Rana on the alleged date.	FAC
So, he reported the matter in writing at Kuarmunda Out Post.	FAC
Basing on his report, SI in-charge of Kuarmunda Out Post entered the fact in the Station Diary Entry No.76 dated 04.10.2011 and took up preliminary investigation.	FAC
Then he sent the report to I.I.C., Biramitrapur police station for registration of a case.	FAC
Accordingly, Biramitrapur P.S.Case No. 135 dated 04.10.2011 was registered under section 302/34 of Indian Penal Code and S.I. S.K.Kanhar took up investigation.	FAC
During investigation he visited the spot, examined the informant and other witnesses, seized the weapon of offence on production by accused Sanjay Rana, conducted inquest over the dead body of the deceased and sent the dead body for post-mortem examination.	FAC
After completion of investigation he submitted charge sheet against the accused persons under section 302/34 of Indian Penal Code giving rise to the commitment of the case to the Court of Sessions for trial.	FAC

 3. The accused persons denied the prosecution allegation and took the plea of false implication.	FAC
4. Hence, the only point for determination is, Whether on 3.10.2011 at about 8 PM on Monday at village Padampur, the accused persons committed murder of the deceased Hagru Rana intentionally, in furtherance of their common intention ?
 5.	ISSUE
To substantiate the alleged charge, prosecution examined as many as seventeen witnesses and declined to examine rest other charge sheeted witnesses.	FAC
It also proved some document in its favour.	FAC
PW.1 is the informant, PW.2 is his daughter-in-law (Bahu); PW.3 Sushil Kumar Sahu, PW.5 Padma @ Palen Tanti, PW.6 Mangal Tanti, PW.7 Bholeswar Rana, PW.10 Hemamalini Rana, P.W.11 Binod Kumar Rout, P.W.12 Prema Rana, P.W.13 Subodh Sha are the independent witnesses; P.W.4 Debraj Singh, P.W.14 Fransis Xess and PW.17 Sankirtan Seth are the witnesses to the seizure; P.W.8 Susanta Rana is a witness to the inquest; P.W.9 Dr. Rajat Ranjan Sudual is the Assistant Surgeon, who had conducted post-mortem over the dead body of the deceased and P.W.16 S.K.Kanhar is the concerned investigating officer.	FAC
On the other hand the accused persons examined none in their support.	FAC

 6. Before proving the guilt of the accused persons, it is to be seen whether the death of the deceased is homicidal or not.	ISSUE
To prove the same, prosecution replied on the sole evidence of the Medical Officer (P.W.9) Dr.Rajat Ranjan Sudual.	FAC
He stated that on 4.10.2011 on police requisition he conducted autopsy over the dead body of the deceased and found the eyes to have been closed, conjunctiva pale, cornea hazy.	FAC
Mouth partially open, tongue inside teeth.	FAC
Red coloured bleeding staining present on the posterior of scalp, neck, shoulder and on left buttock.	FAC
But he did not find any ligature mark.	FAC
His evidence revealed that during his examination, he found external injuries such as multiple chop wounds on the body.	FAC
All are fresh and ante mortem in nature and similar in age character.	FAC
Those are (i) Chop wound of 2 " length, mild obliquely placed to the transverse plane (right end 1 cm at higher level than the left end) present on the middle occipital area width of the wound was ", depth 1" and into the brain matter (ii) Chop wound of length 3" placed above downward on the right Parieto occipital area,width " and depth 1" incising through brain matter (iii) chop wound of 2 " long x " width, 1 depth placed transversely on the left temporal area above the ear canal.	FAC
The sub scalp area of the above mentioned three wounds and the cranial cavity contains ante mortem blood clots (iv) chop wound 2" x " width x 1" deep present on the upper medial side of gluital (left) region.	FAC
It has chopped the illum bone.	FAC
Blood and clots present in the margin.	FAC
On internal examination, he also noticed that the stomach had contained approximately 200 ml. of pale white liquid having alcohol smell.	FAC
He opined that the cause of death of the deceased was due to combined effect of coma due to head injury and shock due to haemorrhage.	FAC
He proved his report as Ext.4 and his signature therein as Ext.4/1.	FAC
So, from the above evidence of P.W.9 and from Ext.4 it is clearly proved that the death of the deceased is homicidal in nature.	FAC
7. On careful scrutiny of the evidence of all the prosecution witnesses, it appeared that all of them are post occurrence witnesses.	ANALYSIS

 None of them have direct knowledge about the alleged incident.	ANALYSIS
None of them had seen the accused persons while committing murder of the deceased Hagru Rana.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1, the informant, deposed that on the day of occurrence at about 6 P.M. while he was in his house both the accused persons came to their house and called his son Hagru.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter his son and both the accused persons went to the house of one Palen of their village.	ANALYSIS
After one hour, the accused Keshab Rana came to their house and disclosed before him that they have killed their son Hagru and his dead body was lying near the school building of their village.	ANALYSIS
So, he went to the spot and found his son Hagru was lying there with multiple injuries on his head.	ANALYSIS
They shifted him to Kuarmunda hospital and thereafter they shifted him to Rourkela Government Hospital, but on the way to Rourkela Government Hospital he died.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter he lodged F.I.R. at Kuarmunda Out Post.	ANALYSIS
He proved the said F.I.R. as Ext.1.	ANALYSIS
In his cross-examination he admitted that on the date of occurrence his son Hagru went to the house of Palen for consuming liquor.	ANALYSIS
He had also gone to the house of Palen to consume liquor.	ANALYSIS
When he was returning from the house of Palen after taking liquor, he heard that his son died.	ANALYSIS

He categorically stated that he had no direct knowledge about any assault on his son.	ANALYSIS
His evidence fully contradicted the story of the F.I.R.
(Ext.1).	ANALYSIS
Ext.1 revealed that on the day of occurrence at about 8 P.M. the accused Keshab Rana informed his (informant's) daughter-in-law that his on Hagru was lying near school building with injuries.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 in his evidence stated that on the day of occurrence both the accused persons came to their house and called his son Hagru and all of them went to the house of Palen.	ANALYSIS
But he had not mentioned the said fact in his F.I.R.
P.W.2 appears to be the wife of the deceased.	ANALYSIS
She also corroborated the evidence of P.W.1 and stated that on the date of occurrence both the accused persons came to their house and called her husband Hagru.	ANALYSIS

Sometimes thereafter the accused Keshab came to their house and told them that they have thrown her husband near the school of their village after assaulting him.	ANALYSIS
So, she rushed to the spot and found her husband was lying with multiple injuries on his head.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter they shifted him to Kuarmunda hospital.	ANALYSIS
As his condition became serious, they shifted him to Rourkela Government Hospital, where the doctor declared him to be dead.	ANALYSIS
Her cross-examination revealed that she had not seen the accused persons while assaulting her husband.	ANALYSIS
P.W.3, P.W.5, P.W.6, P.W.7, P.W.10, P.W.11, P.W.12 and P.W.13 are independent witnesses.	ANALYSIS

They have also no direct knowledge about the alleged murder.	ANALYSIS
P.W.4, P.W.14 and P.W.17 are appeared to be the seizure witnesses.	ANALYSIS
As such they are also the post occurrence witnesses.	ANALYSIS
P.W.8 is an witness to the inquest.	ANALYSIS
He also categorically stated that he had no direct knowledge about the alleged incident.	ANALYSIS
He stated that on the date of occurrence they received an information that the dead body of the deceased was lying near the spot.	ANALYSIS
So, he alongwith others went to the spot and saw the dead body.	ANALYSIS
Police held inquest over the dead body of the deceased in his presence and prepared the inquest report vide Ext.3.	ANALYSIS
In his cross- examination he categorically stated that he had signed on the inquest report at the instance of police and the contents of the said report was not read over and explained to him.	ANALYSIS
P.W.9, is the concerned Medical Officer, who had conducted post mortem over the dead body of the deceased Hagru.	ANALYSIS
P.W.16 is the concerned Investigating Officer, who had investigated the case.	ANALYSIS
So, both of them are also post occurrence witnesses.	ANALYSIS

 8. The learned Addl. P.P. argued that the informant is the father of the deceased.	ARG_PETITIONER
His evidence revealed that both the accused persons had confessed before him that they have killed his son Hagru and his dead body was lying near the school building of their village.	ARG_PETITIONER
As both the accused persons confessed their guilt before the informant and as there is sufficient evidence to the fact that on the day of occurrence at about 6 P.M. both the accused persons came to the house of the informant and called his son Hagru and all of them went to the house of Palen for consuming liquor and thereafter the witnesses found the dead body of the deceased was lying near the school with multiple injuries on his head, it is clearly proved that both the accused persons have committed murder of the deceased Hagru.	ARG_PETITIONER
He further argued that conviction can be based basing on the solitary evidence.	ARG_PETITIONER
In this case as the informant categorically stated that on the day of occurrence both the accused persons disclosed before him that they have killed his son Hagru, they are not entitled for acquittal in this case.	ARG_PETITIONER
On the other hand learned Advocate for the accused persons contended that, law is well settled in a catina of decisions that no conviction can be based on extra judicial confession.	ARG_RESPONDENT
In the instant case the evidence of the prosecution witnesses are not cogent and trust worthy, as all of them are post occurrence witnesses.	ARG_RESPONDENT
None of the prosecution witnesses stated to have seen the alleged murder.	ARG_RESPONDENT
There is also no chain of circumstances which lead to guilt of the accused persons for commission of the alleged crime.	ARG_RESPONDENT

Admittedly, extra judicial confession is a very weak piece of evidence and conviction cannot be based only on extra judicial confession without any corroboration by any cogent and convincing evidence.	ANALYSIS

 9.  On through scrutiny of the evidence of all the prosecution witnesses I did not find any material to connect the accused persons for their involvement in the commission of murder of the deceased.	RATIO
No other evidence was also found on the record to prove the same.	RATIO
Further prosecution also failed to produce the weapon of offence i.e. one axe for identification by the witnesses.	RATIO
No explanation was also furnished for non production of the same.	RATIO
Due to non production of the seized articles, the alleged seizure is also remained doubtful.	RATIO
10. In view of my above discussion I held that prosecution miserably failed to prove its case against the accused persons beyond all reasonable doubt.	RPC
In the result, I found the accused persons not guilty for committing the offences under section 302 r/w 34 of the of Indian Penal Code and acquitted them from the same U/S.235(1) of the Cr.P.C.	RPC
They (accused persons) be set at liberty and they be discharged of their bail bonds.	RPC
11. The seized articles, if any, be destroyed four moths after the expiry of period of limitation for preferring appeal, in case of no appeal is preferred and in case of appeal, subject to the order of the Appellate Court Pronounced the judgment in the open Court today, this the 30th day of January, 2015 under my seal and signature.	RPC

 Computerised to my dictation     IInd Additional Sessions Judge, and corrected by me.                        Rourkela.	NONE

 IInd Additional Sessions Judge, Rourkela.	NONE
List of witnesses examined by the prosecution:- PW.1   Sashi Rana PW.2   Chandrika Rana PW.3   Sushil Kumar Sahu PW.4   Dhiraj Singh PW.5   Padma @ Palen Tanti	NONE
PW.6   Mangal Tanti PW.7   Bholeswar Rana PW.8   Susanta Rana P.W.9  	NONE
Dr.Rajat Ranjan Sudual P.W.10 Hema Malini Rana P.W.11	NONE
Binod Kumar Rout P.W.12 Prema Rana P.W.13	NONE
Subodh Sha P.W.14 Fransis Xess P.W.15 Raghaba Rana P.W.16	NONE
Suresh Kumar Kanra P.W.17 Sankirtan Seth.	NONE
List of witnesses examined on behalf of the defence Nil.
 List of documents marked as Exts. on behalf of Prosecution.
 Ext.1  F.I.R.
 Ext.2  Seizure list.	NONE

 Ext.2/1 Signature of P.W.4 on Ext.2.
 Ext.3  Inquest report Ext.3/1 Signature of P.W.8 on Ext.3.
 Ext.4  Post mortem report Ext.4/1 Signature of PW.9 on Ext.4 Ext.5  Querry report Ext.5/1 Signature of P.W.9 in Ext.5 Ext.6  Seizure list Ext.6/1 Signature of P.W.14 in Ext.6 Ext.3/2 Signature of P.W.15 in Ext.3 Ext.2/2 Signature of P.W.16 in Ext.6 Ext.6/2 Signature of P.W.16 in Ext.6 Ext.7  Seizure list Ext.7/1 Signature of P.W.16 in Ext.7 Ext.8	NONE
Chemical report Ext.8/1  Signature of P.W.16 in Ext.8 Ext.9    Seizure list Ext.9/1  Signature of P.W.16 in Ext.9 Ext.5/2  Querry report Ext.5/3  Signature of P.W.16 as Ext.5/2 Ext.9/2  Signature of P.W.17 in Ext.9.
 List of documents marked as Exts. on behalf of Defence.	NONE
Nil.
 List of material objects marked on behalf of Prosecution.
               Nil.	NONE
List of material objects marked on behalf of Defence.
               Nil.	NONE

 IInd Additional Sessions Judge, Rourkela.	NONE
