       IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY	PREAMBLE

                       CRIMINAL APPELLATE SIDE

       CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 127 OF 1995

Smt. Kusum Sagun Malmanke,          .. Appellant	PREAMBLE
Aged a out 36 years,	PREAMBLE
(Orig.	PREAMBLE
Accused
(presently in Sangli Dist.Jail)	PREAMBLE
No.1)
              V	PREAMBLE
/s.
The State of Maharashtra	PREAMBLE
..Respondent.	PREAMBLE
Shri Prashant D. Patil holding for Shri Ranjit V.	PREAMBLE
More
for the appellant.	PREAMBLE


Shri D.R. More,A.P.P. for the State/Respondent.	PREAMBLE
CORAM : S.S. PARKAR, &
                     ANOOP V.MOHTA, JJ.

       DATE : 19TH APRIL, 2005.	PREAMBLE
ORAL JUDGMENT ( PER ANOOP V. MOHTA, J.) 	PREAMBLE
The appellant-accused no.1 was charged for the offences punishable under Section 201, 302 r/w section 34 of Indian Penal Code (IPC), along with the original accused Nos. 2 and 3.	FAC
By an impugned Judgment and order dated 5/12/1994, the Additional Sessions Judge, Sangli, has convicted the appellant for the offence charged under Section 302 of IPC and acquitted accused Nos. 2 and 3.	RLC
Therefore, this appeal against the order of conviction and sentence to undergo imprisonment for life.	FAC

 2.  The appellant is the mother of Kumar (Accused No.2) and Parshuram (accused No.3).	FAC
The appellant married to Sagun Tatoba Malmanke ( the deceased husband).	FAC
This was her second marriage.	FAC
Above two accused, Laxmi (the deceased daughter) and P.W.10 Renuka and P.W. 9 Deepak borned of her first marriage.	FAC
The appellant therefore, on the date of incident dated 27/1/1994, was the mother of 3 sons and 2 daughters.	FAC

 All were residing together with the deceased in the house situated at Miraj.	FAC

 3.  The deceased daughter, Laxmi had illicit relations with the deceased husband, Sagun.	FAC
Eight days prior to the date of incident, the deceased Sagun and the deceased Laxmi had left the house and they were roaming around in the village.	FAC
On 26/1/1994 at about 9 p.m.,P.W. 9 Deepak had noticed them.	FAC
The appellant rushed there and noticed Mangalsutra around the neck of the deceased Laxmi and when enquired, they informed about their marriage.	FAC
However, the appellant brought them to the house in Rickshaw, which was noticed by the neighbour, P.W. 4, Gopal.	FAC
At about 1 a.m. on 27/1/1994, Gopal (P.W. 4) heard noise of quarrel from the house of the accused and the deceased.	FAC
As such quarrels were routine and as it was also stopped, Gopal P.W. 4 alongwith other neighbourers returned back to their respective homes.	FAC
The appellant after 2 hours, on the same day at about 3 a.m. knocked the door of Gopal, P.W. 4 and requested him to accompany her to the police station.	FAC
The appellant had also asked one Narsu, another neighbour, to accompany her to the police station.	FAC
The appellant picked up an blood stained axe, which was kept in the corner of her house.	FAC
They went to the rickshaw stand by walking .	FAC
The appellant informed that, she along with her son accused Nos. 2 and 3 had assaulted the deceased husband Sagun and deceased daughter Laxmi with an axe, gupti, knife, and wooden handle and killed them.	FAC
The clothes of the appellant were stained with the blood.	FAC
They went to the Miraj Police station by Rickshaw.	FAC
P.W. 4 and Narsu returned back from the compound of Police station, whereas the appellant went inside the police station.	FAC
P.W. 14, Madan, Police Inspector, reduced into writing her report Exh.33 at about 4.45 a.m.	FAC
The appellant put her thumb-impression and it was also endorsed by P.W. 14.	FAC

Therefore, on 27/1/1994, offence was registered as charged.	FAC
The blood stained axe, brought by the appellant, which was used for the commission of crime was seized in presence of P.W.8, Panch Mustak Jamadar under the panchanama Exh.14.	FAC
4.  P.W. 14 Madan, P.I. visited the spot and noticed both the dead bodies in the residential house of the accused.	FAC
The dead body of Sagun was naked.	FAC
There were several injuries on the head, as well as, vital parts of both the dead bodies.	FAC
The inquest panchanma was drawn Exh.8 and 9.	FAC
The photographs were taken Exh.
 25 in presence of P.W. 1, Kadar Babu Sayyed.	FAC
The panchanma Exh.12 was drawn by P.W. 14.	FAC
Several other articles including knife, gupti, wooden handle scattered and lying on the ground were also seized.	FAC
Both the bodies were sent for post mortem examination to Civil Hospital,Sangli.	FAC
Dr. Sanjay S. Bhave (P.W. 15) (M,.O.), conducted the post mortem examination on both these dead bodies.	FAC
The report and letter Exh.47, 48 and death certificates and letter Exh.49 and 50 are on the record.	FAC
The blood stained clothes, blouse, saree and petticoat were also seized in presence of PW.3 Bharat Gurav by P.W. 14, P.I. Chavan.	FAC
The statements of the witnesses were recorded.	FAC
The articles seized were sent to the Chemical Analyser for examination.	FAC
The Chemical Analyser's report is filed on the record.	FAC
P.W. 16, Shri Jadhav, Special Judicial Magistrate recorded the statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. of P.W. 9 Deepak Malmanke (Exh.55).	FAC
The charge sheet against all the accused including the appellant was filed.	FAC
The charges were framed against all the accused.	FAC
All the accused have denied the charges levelled against them and pleaded not guilty and claimed for the trial.	FAC
The prosecution has examined 15 witnesses.	FAC
No defence witness was examined.	FAC
The statements, under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. of each accused, were recorded vide Exh.2,3, and 4.	FAC

 5.  The learned Judge after considering the evidence and material placed on the record, acquitted the original accused Nos. 2 and 3.	RLC
The appellant-original accused No.1 was acquitted for the offence punishable under section 201 of IPC but convicted for the offence punishable under Section 302 r/w 34 of IPC and sentenced her to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay fine of Rs. 5,000/-, in default to undergo further rigorous imprisonment for one year.	RLC
6.  Heard Shri Prashant D. Patil, the learned Counsel for the appellant and Shri D.R. More, the learned A.P.P. for the Respondent/State.	FAC
The appellant's Counsel has relied on 1989 Supp. (2) SCC 147 (Ajit Singh V. State of Punjab) and basically, submitted that the offence was committed by the appellant in grave and sudden provocation, as she found her second husband and her own daughter from first husband, in compromising position and therefore, submitted to consider the provisions of Section 304 (I) of IPC in the facts and circumstances of the case.	ARG_PETITIONER
He has also relied on 1993 Supp. (1) SCC 719 (Raghavan Achari Alias Njoonjappan V. State of Kerala).	ARG_PETITIONER
The learned A.P.P. has supported the Judgment and order on all counts and submitted to maintain the same.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 7.  After considering the material, as well as, the evidence on the record, we are also of the view, that the appellant, in the facts and circumstances of the case, under grave provocation, murdered her second husband, Sagun and her own daughter, Laxmi (from her first husband), as they had developed illicit relations and at the relevant time at midnight on 26/1/1994, the appellant had seen them in compromising position.	ANALYSIS
There is no much dispute about the death of both the deceased on the spot, because of severe injuries on the vital parts of the bodies of the deceased, caused by, the duly seized blood stained axe, by the appellant.	ANALYSIS
The original accused Nos. 2 and 3 were acquitted and there is no counter appeal by the State against the order of acquittal.	ANALYSIS
The acquittal order therefore, remained intact.	ANALYSIS
The prosecution has proved beyond doubt that the appellant assaulted and killed the deceased Sagun and Laxmi.	ANALYSIS
The post mortem report, certificate of Doctor and multiple injuries, as recorded and observed by the learned Judge also support the prosecution.	RLC
The learned Judge has convicted appellant by holding that there was predetermination and design and based on that the said offence was committed.	RLC
Therefore, discarded the defence of sudden and grave provocation.	RLC

 8.  The spot panchanma Exh.10, Scene of offence Exh.12,A inquest panchanma Exhs. 9 shows that the dead body of the deceased Sagun was naked.	ANALYSIS
The illicit relation of the deceased must be bothering the appellant.	ANALYSIS
Both the deceased were away from home for some days.	ANALYSIS
The appellant's son Deepak noticed them in the garden and they were brought back to the house in question.	ANALYSIS
There was quarrel at about 1 a.m. between 26/1/1994 and 27/1/1994 and it was noticed by the by Gopal (P.W. 4).	ANALYSIS
The Mangalsutra around the neck of the deceased Laxmi and open declaration about their marriage with the second husband was also troubling the appellant.	ANALYSIS
Their such illicit relations cannot be said to be normal circumstance for the appellant at the relevant time.	ANALYSIS
Above this, on the same night, when she saw her second husband Sagun in compromising position with the eldest daughter Laxmi, that must have provoked her to commit such crime.	ANALYSIS
Merely because, some knife was purchased on the same date that itself cannot be the reason to hold that there was conspiracy or plan to commit the crime in question.	ANALYSIS

 9.  One cannot over look, in this back ground, the mental condition of the appellant, specially, when the appellant has 2 unmarried daughters and 3 unmarried sons staying together at the relevant time.	ANALYSIS
Whatever may be the circumstances, there is no doubt that she had committed this heinous crime, but immediately made the confession and got arrested herself in the police station on 27/1/1994.	ANALYSIS
The appellant-accused before reaching to the Police Station, when enquired, informed to Gopal, P.W. 4, about the crime and as suggested by him she went to the police station, and informed the same also to the police.	ANALYSIS

 10.       The learned Judge, rightly came to the conclusion that, the confession made before the police officer (P.W. 14) by the accused, cannot be used against her, in view of the bar created under Section 25 of the Evidence Act.	ANALYSIS
The Apex Court in AIR, 1966 S.C.
 119" (Aghnoo Nagesia Vs. State of Bihar)	PRE_RELIED
has held that such admission of an incriminating fact including all other admission of related incriminating fact of the offence, fall within the purview of section 25 of Indian Evidence Act.	PRE_RELIED
The same is reiterated in 1972 Cr.L.J.
 626 ( Khatri Hemraj Amulakh Vs. The State of Gujrat).
 	PRE_RELIED
The Apex Court has observed in the same Judgment as follows.	PRE_RELIED

 "The part of the information as related distinctly to the fact discovered in consequence of the information could also be admitted into evidence under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, if the other conditions of that section were satisfied."
 	PRE_RELIED
The learned Judge therefore, rightly relied on Exh.33, the FIR lodged by the appellant, by considering the provisions of section 8 of the Indian Evidence Act, in reference to the conduct of the appellant including visiting the police station on her own accord and made the report.	ANALYSIS
The information given by the appellant, which is followed by the seizure of the blood stained axe (Exh. 14) can be taken note of.	ANALYSIS
The testimony of P.W. 4, Gopal; P.W. 14, P.I, Madan Chavan (Exh.33) and in addition to that statement made by he appellant under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. was rightly relied and considered by the learned Judge.	ANALYSIS
In view of the corroboration of this material particulars, we are also of the view, that the prosecution has proved the links of the events against the appellant.	ANALYSIS
The panch, Mustaq, P.W. 8 of the panchanama Exh. 14, also support the fact that in his presence P.W. 14, I.O. had seized blood stained axe from the appellant.	ANALYSIS
The contents of FIR Exh.33, and all these aspects are also rightly relied upon.	ANALYSIS
We cannot over look the fact of recovery of the weapon (blood stained axe) from the possession of the appellant and as the same was also independently established by the evidence of P.Ws. 4, 8 and 14.
 11.	ANALYSIS
 The prosecution according to us and as observed by the learned Sessions Judge has proved the Commission of the offence by the appellant and her effective participation in the said offence.	ANALYSIS
Apart from the extra Judicial confession by the appellant to P.W. 4, there are corroborative evidence, independently, on the record, to support the said extra judicial confession made by the appellant.	ANALYSIS
The possibility of disclosing this fact to P.W. 4, who was at the relevant time was neighbourer, cannot be discarded.	ANALYSIS
There is a observation by the learned Judge also that the appellant was prostitute and the acquaintance of the appellant with Gopal was not unnatural.	ANALYSIS
Gopal (P.W.4) was staying with his keep in the neighbouring house.	ANALYSIS
The immediate conduct of the appellant, after committing the crime and asking for help from P.W.. 4 and one other neighbour cannot be discarded.	ANALYSIS

 12.  There is no doubt that such confessional statement cannot be the basis of conviction, and or even also the extra judicial confession, unless, it is corroborated by the other piece of evidence.	ANALYSIS
In the facts and circumstance of the case, we are of the view, that the corroborative circumstances are also against the appellant.	ANALYSIS
Merely because, P.W. 9, Deepak son the appellant; P.W. 10, Renuka, daughter of the appellant were declared hostile, still, as both these witnesses, as observed rightly by the learned Sessions Judge, have deposed in their examination-in-chief, the facts prior to the incident, specially, the fact that Deepak ,P.W.
9 noticed both the deceased Sagun and Laxmi in Ambedkar Garden, Miraj, and they were absent from the house for more than 8 days.	ANALYSIS
Based upon the said information, the appellant with others went to the spot and brought both the deceased to the house on 26/11/1994.	ANALYSIS
P.W. 4 (Gopal) noticed that the deceased Sagun and Laxmi and appellant alighted from the rickshaw on 26/1/1994 at about 3 p.m.	ANALYSIS
This fact was corroborated by P.W. 9, Deepak and P.W. 10, Renuka, who were also residing along with the deceased and the appellant in the same house.	ANALYSIS
This circumstantial evidence therefore, also linked the prosecution case.	ANALYSIS

 13.  The presence of original accused Nos. 2 and 3 was not supported and or proved by any of the witnesses.	ANALYSIS

 14.  On 27/1/1994 at about 3 a.m., as noted above, P.W. 4, Gopal on the request of appellant accompanied her upto the compound wall of the police station.	ANALYSIS
P.W.
 12 also gave drinking water to the appellant and asked her husband, Narsu to accompany her.	ANALYSIS
The blood stained clothes, blood stained weapon i.e. axe which were seized from appellant. No.1.	ANALYSIS
The Chemical Analyser's reports Exh.37 to 40 disclose that the blood group of the deceased was found on the seized blood stained clothes, apart from the clothes of the appellant and the axe.	ANALYSIS
All these corroborative evidence, therefore, connect the appellant with the crime.	ANALYSIS
P.W. 15, Dr.
Sanjay, Medical Officer, who examined the dead bodies also in his post mortem notes Exh.47 and 48 supports 21 injuries on the person of deceased Sagun and 17 injuries on the person of deceased Laxmi.	ANALYSIS
These injuries were caused by sharp and cutting object.	ANALYSIS

 15.  The learned Judge, however, merely relied on the evidence of P.W. 7, Mohinuddin, who deposed that in the night on 26/1/1994 at about 9 p.m. the appellant had been to his house and wanted to purchase a knife.	ANALYSIS
But as the shop was closed, he offered her a gupti and the appellant had purchased the same, for her own security, as she had to travel to Karnataka.	ANALYSIS
The murder was committed at about 1 a.m.	ANALYSIS
The basic injuries on the person of both the deceased, as per post- mortem reports Exh.47 and 48 were on the vital part i.e. head, chest and were with the axe.	ANALYSIS
The gupti was also recovered from the spot, under the panchanma, which was identified by P.W.7, but the gupti was not blood stained.	ANALYSIS

According to us purchase and recovery of Gupti from the spot that itself cannot be sufficient to accept the prosecution case and reasoning given by the learned Judge that the appellant had predetermined and designed to kill and or assaulted both the deceased.	ANALYSIS
There is nothing material on the record to show that the gupti in question was used in the commission of offence, as observed by the learned Judge, himself in para 29.
 16.	ANALYSIS
The learned Judge according to us, right in his reasoning in holding that the appellant had committed the crime in question and the prosecution has proved the same.	ANALYSIS
However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, we are convinced that the appellants statement under section 313 of Cr.P.C. read with other corroborative evidence that the appellant had committed the crime, because of out come of grave and sudden provocation.	ANALYSIS
We are of the view, that there was no pre-designed act or pre determined plan to commit the offence in question.	ANALYSIS
We are of the view, that in the totality of the circumstance, there is an ample material on the record to show that the grave and sudden provocation was the main reason to commit such offence by the appellant.	ANALYSIS
In the facts and circumstance of the case, the learned Judge was wrong in observing that burden to discharge rests upon the appellant, that she had received grave and sudden provocation at the hands of her husband Sagun and daughter Laxmi and therefore, she made assault in such state of mind.	ANALYSIS
The learned Judge, according to us, was also wrong by observing that she did not choose to adduce any evidence in her defence to establish the facts of receiving grave and sudden provocation.	ANALYSIS
We are of the view, after evaluating the evidence on the record and in the facts and circumstances of the case, that the appellant had committed the crime in question, because of sudden provocation.	ANALYSIS

 17.  The Apex Court in Raghavan Achari (Supra) acquitted the accused as that was the case of self defence, as the accused had caused grievous injuries to the appellant first and the appellant having seen the deceased in compromising position with his wife, and therefore, in this background the appellant had inflicted with the chopper, which resulted into the death of the deceased.	PRE_RELIED
In that circumstances, the Apex Court has acquitted the appellant by giving the benefit of section 100 of IPC.	ANALYSIS
The facts are distinct in the present case.	ANALYSIS

 18.  Therefore, after considering the material on the record, we are accepting the submissions made by the learned Advocate appearing for the appellant based upon the Apex Court's decision (Ajit Singh) ( Supra) that the appellant had acted under grave and sudden provocation, therefore, the offence committed by her falls within the ambit of Section 304(1) of I.P.C.
 19.	RPC
 The appeal is partly allowed.	RPC

 .  We are therefore, quash and set aside the conviction for the offence punishable under section 302 r/w section 34 of IPC.	RPC
The offence committed by the appellant according to us fall within the ambit of section 304(I) of IPC.	RPC
Therefore, a sentence of 8 years rigorous imprisonment would meet the ends of justice.	RPC
The order is modified to this extent.	RPC
The appellant is entitled for the set off, for the period, which she has already undergone.	RPC
The appellant shall surrender to her bail bond forthwith.	RPC

 [ S.S. PARKAR, J. ] [ANOOP V. MOHTA, J.]	NONE
