PETITIONER:
COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, DELHI CENTRAL

Vs.

RESPONDENT:
MODI SPINNING AND WEAVING MILLS CO. LTD.

DATE OF JUDGMENT26/10/1990	PREAMBLE


BENCH:
PUNCHHI, M.M.
BENCH:
PUNCHHI, M.M.
AGRAWAL, S.C. (J)

CITATION:            1990 SCC Supl. (2) 461
 1991 AIR 2033
 JT 1991 (1) 29

ACT:
       Income Tax Act, 1922--Section 10(2)(vib), Proviso (b)

and CBDT Circular dated October 14, 1965 Explanations (a),
(b) and (c) Allowance of development rebate on plant and
machinery--Entitlement to by assessee.

HEADNOTE:	PREAMBLE
In Commissioner of Income Tax, Madras v. Veeraswami

Nainar & 9rs., 55 ITR 35, the Madras High Court took the
view that the development rebate reserved should be made at
the time of making up the Profits and Loss Account, and this
was affirmed by this Court in Indian Overseas Bank's Ltd. v.
Commissioner of Income Tax, 77 ITR 512.	PREAMBLE
A distinction was
drawn between development rebate reserve and other reserves
createable under the Companies Act and the Income Tax Act
and it was required to be separately created.	PREAMBLE


       Consequent to this decision it was noticed that an
important circuit of the Central Board of Direct Taxes dated
October, 4, 1965 was unwittingly mowed down.	PREAMBLE
This circular
gave the Board's Explanation three paragraphs (a), (b) and
(c) regarding the position for creation statutory reserve
for allowance of development rebate.	PREAMBLE
A spate of litigation ensued and some of the taxing
authorities, relying on the Indian Overseas Bank's case in
some cases, took revitional and rectificatory actions, and
these reached various High Courts.	PREAMBLE


       The Gujarat High Court in Surat Textiles Mills Ltd. v.
Commissioner of Income-tax Gujarat, 80 I.T.R. 1 opted for
the narrow view in assuming that all the 3 Explanations
contained in the 1965 Circular stood wiped out by Indian
Overseas Bank's case.	PREAMBLE


       The Central Board of Direct Taxes, therefore, took the
step of withdrawing in the year 1972 the Circular dated
October 14, 1965 to the extent it stood superseded by deci-
sion in Indian Overseas Bank's case.	PREAMBLE
Other High Courts,
however, took a broader view to the effect that Explanation
contained in para (a) only was done away with by this
Court's decision in Indian Overseas Bank's case and that
contained in paras (b) and (c) were still alive.	PREAMBLE

       On account of the aforesaid difference of opinion, it
was represented to the Board that the earlier instructions

dated October 14, 1965 represented the correct position of
law and that the withdrawal to the extent it was presumed to
be overruled by the decision in Indian Overseas Bank's case
had created unnecessary hardships to the assessees.	PREAMBLE


       In the instant appeal the question, whether the respond-
entassessee was entitled to allowance rebate on the plant
and machinery after 1.1.1958, after due compliance with the
provisions of proviso (b) to section 10(2)(vib) of the
Income Tax Act, 1922 was answered by the Division Bench of
the Allahabad High Court in favour of the assessee and
against the Revenue.	PREAMBLE

The Revenue appealed to this Court.	PREAMBLE

Dismissing the appeal, this Court,

       HELD: 1.	PREAMBLE
The Board itself had clarified the matter by
Circular No. 189 dated 30th January, 1986.	PREAMBLE
It states to have
	PREAMBLE
re-examined the issue involved coming to the view that
	PREAMBLE
except the clarification contained in Explanation para (a)
which stood superseded by the decision of this Court in
Indian Overseas Bank's case	PREAMBLE
, the clarification given in
paragraphs (b) and (c) hold good	PREAMBLE
. [465D]

       2.	PREAMBLE
The Board itself has opted for the broader view
expressed in the matter in the,Tata Iron and Steel Compa-
nies' case and other cases.	PREAMBLE
There is, therefore, no reason
to do the exercise of taking any side of the two views.	PREAMBLE

[465E]

       3.	PREAMBLE
It is undisputed that the Board's view is not only
valid under the new Income Tax Act of 1961, but to the
Indian income-Tax Act, 1922 as well.	PREAMBLE
[465F]

       Commissioner of Income Tax, Madras v. Veeraswami Nainar
and Ors., 55 I.T.R. 35, affirmed.	PREAMBLE


       Indian Overseas Bank Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax,
77 I.T.R. 512, followed.

       Surat Textile Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-Tax
Gujarat, 80 I.T.R. 1, overruled.
Veerabhadra Iron Foundary & Anr. v. Commissioner of IncomeTax, 69 I.T.R. 425; Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. v.N. C
Upadhyaya, 96 I.T.R. 1 and The Commissioner of Income Tax v.
Sardar Singh, 86ITR 387, approved.

JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE

       CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION:	NONE
Civil Appeal No. 330 of 1976.	NONE
From the Judgment and Order dated 13.3.1972 of the Allahabad High Court in ITR No. 457 of 1968.
       V. Gauri Shankar, S. Rajappa and Ms. A. Subhashini for the petitioner.	NONE

       Harish N. Salve, A.T. Patra, Ms. Bina Gupta, Ms. Monika Mohil, Rajiv Shakhdhar and Praveen Kumar for the Respondent.	NONE

The following Order of the Court was delivered: This appeal is directed against the Judgment dated 13.3.1972 made by a Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Income Tax Reference No. 457 of 1968 deciding the following question of law in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue.	RLC

"Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the assessee can be said to have complied with the provi- sions of proviso (b) to section 10(2)(vib) of the Income Tax Act, 1922 and was, therefore, entitled to allowance of development rebate on the plant and machinery installed after 1.1. 1958."	ISSUE

 It would be unnecessary to detail out facts which led to the framing of the question and the answer given.	NONE
The dis- pute centered around the timing of the creation of the reserve known as the development rebate reserve.	FAC
In Commis- sioner of Income Tax, Madras v. Veeraswami Nainar & Ors., 55 ITR p. 35, the Madras High Court took the view that develop- ment rebate reserve should be made at the time of making up the Profits and Loss Account.	PRE_RELIED
This view was affirmed by this Court in Indian Overseas Bank's Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, 77 ITR 5 12..	PRE_RELIED
Both cases arose under the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922.	PRE_RELIED
Distinction was drawn between develop- ment rebate reserve and other reserves creatable under the Companies Act and the Income Tax Act and it was required to be separately created.	ANALYSIS
On appearance of the Indian Overseas Bank's case on the scene it appears that animportant circular of the Central Board of Direct Taxes was unwittingly mowed down.	ANALYSIS
That circular was of October 4, 1965 and stands reproduced in circular No. 189 dated 30th Janu- ary, 1976 at page 90 in 102 Income Tax Reports (Statutes).
	ANALYSIS
The Board's Explanation with regard to the position for creation of statutory reserve for allowance of development rebate was in these terms: (a) In the case of certain industrial undertakings, particularly those in which there is Government participa- tion either by way of capital, loan or guarantee, and where there are certain obligations by law or agreement about the maintenance of reserve for development purposes, the devel- opment rebate reserve may be treated as included in the said reserve though not specifically created as a development rebate reserve.
 (b) In a case where the total income computed before allowing the development rebate is a loss there was no legal obligation to create any statutory reserve in that year as no development rebate would actually be allowed in that year.
 (c) Where there was no deliberate contravention of the provisions, the Income-tax Officer may condone genuine deficiencies subject to the same being made good by the assessee though operation of adequate additional reserve in the current year books in which the assessment is framed.
 	ANALYSIS
This led to a spate of litigation, pressing the Indian Overseas Bank's case some taxing authorities in some cases took revisional and rectificatory actions.	ANALYSIS
These reached various High Courts.	ANALYSIS
The Gujarat High Court in Surat Textile Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax Gujarat, 80 I.T.R.P. 1 opted for what may be called a narrow view in assuming that besides Explanation (a) reproduced above explanations (b) and (c) as well too stood wiped out by Indian Overseas Bank's case..	PRE_RELIED
In these circumstances the Central Board of Direct Taxes took the step of withdrawing in the year 1972 the Circular dated October 14, 1965 to the extent it stood superseded by decision in Indian Overseas Bank's case and the judgment of the Gujarat High Court in Surat Textile Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax.	ANALYSIS
Other High Courts took what may be called a broader view.	ANALYSIS
The trend of reasoning in those cases was that expla- nation (a) only was done away with by this Court in Indian Overseas Bank's case but explanations (b) and (c) were still alive.	ANALYSIS
In this connection Veerabha-dra Iron Foundary & Anr. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, 69 I.T.R. 425; Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. v.N.C. Upadhyaya, 96 I.T.R.p. 1 and The Commissioner of Income Tax v. Sardar Singh, 86 ITR 387 (Punjab) may be seen.	PRE_RELIED

 In the face of such difference of opinion, it was repre- sented to the Board that earlier instructions dated October 14, 1965 represented the correct position of law and that the withdrawal to the extent it was presumed to be overruled by this Court in Indian Overseas Bank's case had created unnecessary hardship to the assessees.
 	ANALYSIS
It appears that the instant case, out of which this appeal has arisen, was decided by the Allahabad High Court taking the broader view, Special leave was sought by the Revenue from this Court on the question of resolving the conflict between the two views.	ANALYSIS
Leave was granted at a time when the Board itself had clarified the matter vide Circular No. 189 dated 30th January, 1986 of which hint has been left earlier.	ANALYSIS
The Board states to have re-examined the issue involved coming to the view that except the clarification given in paragraph (a) above, which stood superseded by the decision of this Court in Indian Overseas Bank's case, the clarifications given in paragraphs (b) and (c) quoted above hold good.	ANALYSIS
It can thus legitimately be stated that the Board has itself opted for the view expressed in Tara Iron and Steel Companies' case and other cases of the kind taking the broader view in the matter.	RATIO
When the Board has itself opted for that view and that view is being followed by Income Tax authorities concerned, we see no reason to do the exercise of taking any side of the two views and leave the matter at that.	RATIO
It is undisputed that the Board's view is not only valid under the new Income Tax Act of 1961 but to the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922 as well.	RATIO

 For the foregoing discussions this appeal fails and the judgment of the High Court is left untouched.	RPC
In the circum- stances of the case there will be no order as to costs.	RPC
V.P.R.                                  	RPC
Appeal dis- missed.	RPC
