IN THE COURT OF THE CIVIL JUDGE-CUM-JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
         FIRST CLASS, RAJGANGPUR, DISTRICT- SUNDARGARH.	PREAMBLE


Present: Ms. Navneeta Dash, B.L.S/LL.B,
               C.J-cum-J.M.F.C, Rajgangpur.	PREAMBLE


                 2(a)CC No. 203 of 2014	PREAMBLE

                    TR. No. 65 of 2015	PREAMBLE


(arising out of Bargaon Charge P.R No. 43/2014-2015)

Dated this the 10th day of May, 2018	PREAMBLE


State of Odisha                          ...... Prosecution	PREAMBLE


                              -versus-	PREAMBLE


Niranjan Ekka, aged about 40	PREAMBLE
            ...... Accused
years, son of Gopal Ekka,
resident of Tudalaga (Bus
Stand Pada), P.S- Bargaon,
District- Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE


Offence u/s. 47(a) of the Bihar and Orissa Excise Act, 1915.	PREAMBLE


Date of conclusion of argument : 10.05.2018

Date of delivery of judgment	PREAMBLE
 : 10.05.2018	PREAMBLE
Counsel for the Prosecution   : Ms. Bijaylata Saw,
Counsel for the Defence           Ld. A.P.P, Rajgangpur.

                              : Shri. B.K Routray and
                                  Associates, Advocates.	PREAMBLE


                                    J U D G M E N T	PREAMBLE

        The above named accused stands charged for having committed the offence of illegal possession of I.D liquor, punishable u/s. 47(a) of the Bihar and Orissa Excise Act, 1915 (to be hereinafter referred to as `the Act' for the sake of brevity).	FAC
2. The case of the prosecution in brief is that, on 29.12.2014 at around 10:00 am, Dolagobinda Panda, S.I. of Excise, Bargaon Charge and other staff members of his office, while conducting patrolling in Tudalaga (Bus Stand Pada) area, spotted the accused walking suspiciously on the said village road holding a plastic jerrycan in his right hand.	FAC
Upon the basis of such suspicion, the S.I detained the accused and conducted search, during which he recovered the said plastic jerrycan containing 03 litres of I.D liquor from the possession of the accused.	FAC
Then the S.I conducted tongue and smell test and blue litmus paper test during which the paper turned into red.	FAC
He also conducted Hydrometer Test thereon and found its temperature to be 75 F, Spindle Indication to be 88.4 and Strength to be 70.9 U.P.	FAC
From the findings of said tests as well as from his departmental experience, the S.I concluded that the liquid was I.D liquor.	FAC
On demand, since the accused failed to produce any kind of authentic document or licence for legitimising his possession of the said liquor, the S.I seized the said liquor and on completion of enquiry, submitted P.R against the accused.	FAC
3. The plea of the accused is of complete denial and false implication as is revealed from his statement u/s. 313 Cr.P.C.
 4.	FAC
On the above factual matrix and after hearing both sides, I find that the points which call for determination, are as follows: Whether on 29.12.2014 at around 10:00 am on the village road of Bus Stand Pada, Tudalaga, under Bargaon P.S:- i. the accused was found to be possessing 03 litres of I.D liquor without any licence or valid authority?
 ii. the I.D liquor and jerrycan was seized from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused?	ISSUE

 5. In order to prove its case the prosecution has examined three witnesses.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, the defence examined none and led no evidence from its side.	ANALYSIS
P.W.3 is the complainant-cum-I.O who has deposed about his patrolling and about detection of the incident.	ANALYSIS
He stated that, he spotted and detained the accused.	ANALYSIS
He added that on conducting search, he recovered and seized one plastic jerrycan containing 03 litres of I.D liquor from the possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
He added that upon conducting litmus test over the seized liquid the blue litmus paper turned red.	ANALYSIS
He also conducted Hydrometer Test and found its temperature to be 75 F, Spindle Indication- 88.4 and Strength- 70.9 U.P.	ANALYSIS
He deposed that upon conducting such tests and due to his training and service experience he ascertained that the seized liquid was nothing but I.D liquor.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2 is an official seizure witness, being an Excise Constable who had accompanied P.W.3 on patrolling duty.	ANALYSIS
He has supported the prosecution story in his evidence.	ANALYSIS
He has deposed about their patrolling and about detection of the incident.	ANALYSIS
He stated that upon detaining the accused and conducting search, P.W.3 recovered and seized one plastic jerrycan containing 03 litres of I.D liquor from the possession of the accused in his presence, and that Litmus and Hydrometer tests were conducted and a Seizure List thereof was prepared by the P.W.3-I.O upon which he had signed.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 is an independent witness who has deposed that he does not know anything about this case and that nothing has been seized in his presence.	ANALYSIS

 6. Heard the arguments advanced by both the sides.	ANALYSIS
Perused the evidence on record and carefully considered the arguments advanced by both sides with respect to both the points for determination.	ANALYSIS
Considering the nature of evidence on record, both the points are taken up for determination together.	ANALYSIS

 7. In order to establish an offence u/s. 47(a) of the Act, the prosecution must establish the following: (i) The seized substance was I.D. liquor (ii) That the said I.D. liquor was possessed by the accused without any licence or authority.	STA
(iii) That it was seized from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	STA

Although the evidence on record reveals that litmus test and Hydrometer Test have both been conducted, no conclusive test such as Chemical Examination has been conducted by the prosecution agencies.	ANALYSIS
In the absence of Chemical Examination or any other kind of direct and cogent evidence, it cannot be conclusively proved that the seized liquid was nothing but I.D liquor.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, it is held that the prosecution has failed to prove that the seized article is I.D liquor.	ANALYSIS

 8. Besides that, as regards seizure, the prosecution has also not seized any identity document from the accused in order to establish that the seizure took place from the possession of none else but the present accused.	ANALYSIS
Further, it is clear from the evidence of the sole independent seizure witness that no seizure has taken place in his presence.	ANALYSIS
In absence of any support from the independent witness, it is not prudent to rely solely upon the evidence of P.Ws.2 and 3 regarding the factum of seizure.	ANALYSIS

Moreover, the seized I.D. liquor if any, has not been produced before this court during trial.	ANALYSIS
Hence, in view of the same, even the seizure cannot be held to be proved to have occurred from none else but the accused in this case.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, it is held that the prosecution has failed to bring forth any direct and cogent evidence against the accused, to establish the essential ingredients of offence u/s. 47(a) of the Act, and accordingly, both the points are answered in the negative in favour of the accused.	RATIO

 9.  In the result, accused Niranjan Ekka is held not guilty for having committed the alleged offence u/s. 47 (a) of the Bihar and Orissa Excise Act, 1915 and is therefore, acquitted u/s. 248 (1) of the Cr.P.C.	RPC
He be set at liberty forthwith and be discharged from his bail bonds.	RPC
10. The seized items, if any, be destroyed after four months of expiry of appeal period if no appeal is preferred, and if preferred, be dealt with as per the direction of the appellate court.	RPC

 11. Status of the accused: - Accused is on bail and is present.
 12.	RPC
Enter this case as `mistake of fact.'	RPC
C.J-cum-J.M.F.C, Rajgangpur.	RPC
This judgment is typed, corrected, signed and pronounced by me in the open Court today i.e., on this the 10th day of May, 2018, under my hand and seal of this Court.	NONE

 C.J-cum-J.M.F.C, Rajgangpur.	NONE

 List of Prosecution Witnesses: P.W.1-   Bikram Bag.
 P.W.2-   Sandeep Kumar Naik.	NONE

 P.W.3-   Dolagobinda Panda.	NONE
List of Defence Witnesses: None List of Exhibits marked for the Prosecution:	NONE
Ext.1    Seizure List.	NONE

 Ext.11-  Signature of P.W.2 on Ext.1.
 Ext.12-  Signature of P.W.3 on Ext.1.
 Ext.13-  Tested blue litmus paper Strip.
 Ext.2-   Hydrometer Chart.
 Ext.21-  Signature of P.W.3 on Ext.2.
 List of Exhibits marked for the Defence: Nil.
 C.J-cum-J.M.F.C, Rajgangpur.
 	NONE
