IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU

      DATED THIS THE 26TH DAY OF MAY, 2020

          BEFORE	PREAMBLE


      THE HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE B.A.PATIL

          CRIMINAL PETITION No.1945/2020	PREAMBLE


BETWEEN:

Sri Khandya Praveen                         ...Petitioner	PREAMBLE
@ Praveen @ H.K.Praveen Kumar
S/o Keshavamurthy
Aged about 39 years
R/o Khandya Village & Post
Chikkamagaluru Taluk-577 101.	PREAMBLE
(By Sri Aruna Shyam M., Advocate)	PREAMBLE


AND:	PREAMBLE


The State of Karnataka                      ...Respondent	PREAMBLE

through Basavanahalli Police Station	PREAMBLE

Represented by its State Public Prosecutor	PREAMBLE

High Court Building
High Court of Karnataka	PREAMBLE

Bengaluru-560 001.	PREAMBLE
(By Sri Mahesh Shetty, HCGP)	PREAMBLE


        This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of
Cr.P.C praying to enlarge the petitioner on bail in Crime
No.132/2016 of Basavanahalli Police Station,
Chikkamagaluru for the offences punishable under
Sections 364A, 395, 386, 342, 324, 506, 120B r/w 149 of
Indian Penal Code.

        This Criminal Petition coming on for Orders this day,
`through Video Conference' the Court made the
	PREAMBLE
following:-	PREAMBLE


                                    O R D E R
        	PREAMBLE
The present petition has been filed by the petitioner- accused No.4 under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. praying to release him on bail in Crime No.132/2016 of Basavanahalli Police Station, Chikkamagaluru District, for the offences punishable under Sections 364A, 395, 386, 342, 324, 506, 120B r/w 149 of Indian Penal Code, in S.C.No.34/2018 on the file of Principal District and Sessions Judge, Chikkamagaluru.	FAC

 2. I have heard the learned counsel Sri.Aruna Shyam M. through virtual hearing and Sri.Mahesh Shetty, learned High Court Government Pleader.
 3.	NONE
The gist of the complaint is that on 28.6.2016 at about 2.00 a.m., the complainant was about to open the gate of his house to park his vehicle.	FAC
At that time, one Abhijith and six others came in a black Scorpio vehicle bearing Regn.No.KA-20/N-3659 and surrounded and thereafter kidnapped him in their car and he was also threatened not to shout and if he shouts, they will kill him.	FAC

It is further alleged that the persons who were there in the car were holding deadly weapons and they also forcibly took his car key and out of them two persons took away the car and they also switched off his mobile and thereafter started proceeding to Bengaluru and thereafter took him to a go-down at Bengaluru and tied him and wrongfully confined.	FAC
It is further alleged that subsequently, one Naveen Shetty assaulted on the head and face of the complainant and threatened him that he should pay Rs.25 lakhs to a person whom they are going to name and if he is not going to pay, they will take away his life.	FAC
When the complainant questioned him as to why he should pay so much of money, then Naveen Shetty told that he has cheated Rs.20 lakhs to Nataraj Kalmane Chit Fund in a cricket betting and as such he has to pay the said amount.	FAC

It is further alleged that thereafter they shifted the complainant to another place, where accused No.4- petitioner along with Naveen Shetty came and they demanded Rs.10 lakhs.	FAC
They also gave a mobile handset and he telephoned to one Shiva to arrange for Rs.10 lakhs.	FAC

But the said Shiva told that he has got only Rs.2,00,000/- and the complainant told about his kidnap and requested him to arrange for money and the said Shiva agreed to arrange Rs.10 lakhs with his friends and thereafter he telephoned to Shiva and told him to pay the same to one Pavan.	FAC
He further told that the said Naveen Shetty has to be paid the said amount.	FAC
He also gave a mobile number 9480805120, but the said mobile number belongs to Dy.S.P. and he told to bring the said amount near the Police Quarters where he handed over Rs.10 lakhs at about 10.15 p.m.	FAC
On the basis of the complaint, a case was registered.	FAC
4. It is the contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner that already the charge sheet has been filed and since more than two years the petitioner-accused is in custody, neither the charge has been framed nor any progress has been made in the case.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is his further submission that he is having an old aged mother and nobody is there to look after her.	ARG_PETITIONER
He is the only bread earner in his family.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is his further submission that the complaint has been registered after six days of the incident and no amount has been recovered from the possession of the accused.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is his further submission that the complainant has neither sustained any injury nor he has been treated in the hospital.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is his further submission that the complainant was charge sheeted for having played a gambling and he has pleaded guilty.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is his further submission that all other accused persons have been released on bail and the petitioner-accused alone is in custody.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is his further submission that the injured complainant alone is the witness in the said incident and his evidence is also not trustworthy and not reliable.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is his further submission that only because of cancellation of the anticipatory bail by the Hon'ble Apex Court the learned District Judge without even considering the application for cancellation of the bail has rejected the bail and he has been wrongfully taken into custody.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is his further submission that because of Covid-19 there is no likelihood of progress in the case and continuation of the petitioner- accused in custody is going to affect his right and liberties.	ARG_PETITIONER

It is his further submission that he is ready to abide by the conditions imposed by this Court and ready to offer the sureties.	ARG_PETITIONER
On these grounds he prayed to allow the petition and to release the petitioner-accused on bail.	ARG_PETITIONER

 5. Per contra, the learned High Court Government Pleader vehemently argued and submitted that earlier the petitioner-accused has approached this Court in Criminal Petition No.6790/2018 and subsequently in another Criminal Petition No.9456/2018, this Court after considering the merits of the case has dismissed the bail application.	ARG_RESPONDENT
No new grounds have been made out so as to reconsider the bail application.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Merely because there is delay in trial, the petitioner-accused is not entitled to be released on bail.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is his further submission that the charge sheet material clearly goes to show that it is the petitioner-accused who is the main accused and at his instance complainant was kidnapped and the amount has been paid to Deputy Superintendent of Police who has also collected the said amount.	ARG_RESPONDENT
There is prima facie material as against the petitioner-accused.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is his further submission that if the petitioner-accused is enlarged on bail he may abscond and he may not be available for the trial.	ARG_RESPONDENT
On these grounds he prayed to dismiss the petition.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 6. I have carefully and cautiously gone through the submissions made by the learned counsels appearing for the parties and perused the records.	ANALYSIS

 7. It is not in dispute that earlier this Court considered the bail application filed by the petitioner- accused No.4 in Criminal Petition No.6790/2018 and subsequently in Criminal Petition No.9456/2018 dated 22.10.2018 and 11.2.2019 respectively.	ANALYSIS
By considering the merits of the case this Court has came to the conclusion that there is prima facie material as against the petitioner- accused and the bail applications were came to be dismissed.	ANALYSIS

 8. The only contention which has been raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner-accused is that there is no progress in the case.	ANALYSIS
Since more than two years the petitioner-accused is in custody and his right and liberty is involved and it is the complainant who is the only witness and his evidence has to be testified during the course of trial.	ANALYSIS
But merely because the petitioner-accused is in custody, trial has not yet commenced, is not a ground to release him on bail, that too when the petitioner-accused is involved in a serious offence of kidnapping and demanding money of Rs.10 Lakhs and already when the petitioner has approached this Court and it has considered the bail applications and has rejected the bail applications, then under such circumstances, I am of the considered opinion that it is not a fit case so as to reconsider the bail application and to enlarge the petitioner-accused on bail.
	ANALYSIS
Though it is contended by the learned counsel for the petitioner-accused that because of Covid-19 continuation of the petitioner-accused in custody is not necessary, in view of the direction of the Hon'ble Apex Court, in the said decision, the Hon'ble Apex Court issued direction to release the accused if the offences punishable are less than seven years.	ANALYSIS
In that light, the ratio laid down in the said case cannot be made applicable and the petitioner-accused can be released on parole or released on a limited bail.	ANALYSIS
Already it is notified that the Court should start function from 1st of June, 2020.	ANALYSIS
In that light, if a direction is issued to expedite the trial, it is going to meet the ends of justice.	ANALYSIS

 9. Taking into consideration the above said facts and circumstances of the case, I am of the considered opinion that the petitioner-accused has not made out any good grounds so as to enlarge him on bail.	RATIO
However, I am of the considered opinion that if the learned Principal District and Sessions Judge, Chikkamagaluru District is directed to expedite the trial expeditiously within a period of one year from the date of receipt of this order, then under such circumstances it is going to meet the ends of justice.	RPC

 With the above observation the petition is dismissed.	RPC

        However, liberty has been given to the petitioner- accused to move this Court for bail after examination of the complainant.	RPC

 Sd/- JUDGE *AP/-	NONE
