IN THE COURT OF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE FIRST CLASS,
              ROURKELA, DISTRICT: SUNDARGARH.

Present:	PREAMBLE

        Miss Neha Das, BBA, LL.B.
        Judicial Magistrate First Class,
        Rourkela.	PREAMBLE


        Dated this the 16th day of February, 2017.

        G.R.1731 of 2006
        Trial No. 521 of 2016
(Arising out of Bisra P.S. Case No.68 dated 5.9.2006)

State of Odisha            ......  ... Prosecution.

                 -versus-

1. Makra Oram, aged about 45 years, Son of
                Late Bicha Oram.

2. Pati Oram, aged about 37 years, Son of
                of Mangra Oram.

        Both are resident of village: Tulsikani, PS: Bisra,
        Dist: Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE
... Accused persons.	PREAMBLE
Appearances:	PREAMBLE
:       	PREAMBLE
Miss A.Choudhury,
        	PREAMBLE
For the State

                                   A.P.P., Rourkela.

For the Accused No.1       :       Sri P.N.Mahato, Advocate,

                                   Rourkela and Associates.

For the Accused No.1       :       Sri R.P.Pattanaik, Advocate,

                                   Rourkela and Associates.


    Date of argument	PREAMBLE
              :	PREAMBLE
    3rd day of February, 2017.	PREAMBLE
Date of Judgment
                                   :     16th day of February, 2017.	PREAMBLE


OFFENCE U/S. 384/506/341/323/294/34 OF THE INDIAN PENAL CODE	PREAMBLE

                                           1860	PREAMBLE


                                   J U D G M E N T
 	PREAMBLE
The above named accused persons stands charged for the offence punishable U/s 384/506/341/323/294/34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (Here-in-after in short the IPC).	FAC
1.  The case of the prosecution as unfolded from the FIR is that on 5.9.2006 at about 3.45 P.M., one Sourav Sahu (informant) lodged a written report before the IIC, Bisra P.S., alleging to the effect that on the same day at about 3 P.M., while he supervising work of ANM building at Tulsikani, at that time the accused persons Makra Oram and Pati Oram and two others of the village Tulsikani threatened him by saying that they are MCC persons and demanded Rs.3000/- from him.	FAC
When he denied to give the money, they abused him in obscene languages like "MAGHIA, MADARCHOD" and threatened to kill him and also assaulted him by means of fist blows as a result of which he sustained pain on his head, eye, mouth, back and belly and also sustained injury and fell down on the road.	FAC
After the occurrence, they fled away from the spot.	FAC
Sri Mehemood Allam and Sri Dhane Mahata were present at the spot when the occurrence occurred.	FAC

 2. With these allegations, the informant lodged a written report before the IIC, Bisra P.S., who registered the case vide P.S. Case No.68 dated 5.9.2006 U/s 384/506/341/323/294/34 of IPC and directed ASI Ashok Kumar Gochhayat of Bisra P.S. to investigate the case.	FAC
During course of investigation, the I.O. visited the spot, examined the informant and other witnesses, conducted raid, arrested the accused Pati Oram on 6.10.2006 and forwarded him to Court.	FAC
Another accused Makra Oram surrendered before the Court on 26.10.2006 and remanded to jail custody.	FAC
After completion of investigation, the I.O. submitted charge sheet against the accused persons U/s 384/506/341/323/294/34 of IPC to stand their trial before the Court of law.	FAC

 Hence, the case.	NONE

 3. The plea of the accused is complete denial and false implication.	ANALYSIS
4. The points which emerges for determination in this case are: (I) Whether on 5.9.2006 at about 3 P.M. at village Tulsikani, the accused persons in furtherance of your common intention committed extortion by putting the informant Sourav Sahoo in fear of life to wit.	ISSUE
Kill ?	ISSUE

 (II) Whether on the above date, time and place, the accused persons in furtherance of their common intention wrongfully restraint the informant ?	ISSUE

 (III) Whether on the above date, time and place, the accused persons in furtherance of their common intention voluntarily caused hurt to the informant ?	ISSUE

 (IV) Whether on the above date, time and place, the accused persons in furtherance of their common intention abused the informant in filthy languages in or near a public place causing annoyance to him and others ?	ISSUE

 (V) Whether on the above date, time and place, the accused persons in furtherance of their common intention criminally intimidated the informant with injury to his person with intent to cause alarm to him ?	ISSUE

 5.  To substantiate its case, the prosecution has examined seven witnesses out of whom P.W.4 is the informant and P.W.6 is the Medical Officer.	FAC
The statement of the accused persons have been recorded U/s 313 of Cr.P.C.	FAC
On the other hand, no evidence has been adduced on behalf of the accused persons by the defence.	FAC
6. P.W.4 who is the informant of this case deposed before the Court that he knows both the accused persons and the occurrence took place on 5.9.2006 at about 2 P.M. at Tulsikani while he was supervising the work of ANM building at Tulsikani.	FAC
Further, he deposed that accused Pati Oram and Makra Oram reached the spot along with two other persons and they identified themselves as MCC person.	FAC
Further, they demanded Rs.3000/- from him and when he refused to give them money, the accused persons abused him in obscene languages such as "MAGHIA, MADARCHOD" for which he felt ashamed.	FAC
He further stated that the accused persons also assaulted him by means of fist blows and kick blows as a result he sustained injuries on his eye, head and backside and he fell down and his shirt was torn.	FAC
Thereafter, the accused persons fled away from the spot.	FAC
He lodged a written report at P.S. and proved the said FIR vide Ext.1 and his signature on it vide Ext.1/1.	FAC
He further stated that police recorded his statement and sent him for medical examination.	FAC
During his cross examination, he admitted that he did not know the accused persons prior to the incident.	FAC
He has also admitted that the police did not seize his torn shirt.	FAC
He also admitted that he cannot say who had scribed the FIR, but further stated that one staff of Bisra P.S. scribed the said FIR for him.	FAC
P.Ws 1, 2 and 7 deposed that they do not know the informant but they know the accused persons as they are co-villagers.	FAC
Further, they deposed that they do not have any knowledge about this case.	FAC
The learned A.P.P. declared the said witnesses as hostile and they did not admit to any of the questions put-forth by the learned A.P.P.
 P.W.3 deposed that he does not know the informant but he knows the accused Makra Oram.	FAC
Further, he stated that he does not know anything regarding the occurrence of this case.	FAC
P.W.5 deposed that the occurrence took place on 5.9.2006 at about 3 P.M. at Tulsikani.	FAC
Further, he stated that at the time of incident he was present at the spot i.e. ANM building at Tulsikani.	FAC
Further, he stated that the accused persons Pati Oram and Makra Oram came to the spot and demanded money from him.	FAC
Then on the arrival of the informant (P.W.4), they demanded money from the informant.	FAC
Further, he stated that the accused persons abused P.W.4 in obscene languages and also assaulted him by means of fist blows and kick blows as a result of which he fell down and sustained injuries on his body.	FAC
Further, he stated that due to the said incident, the shirt of the informant was torn.	FAC
He deposed that the informant lodged a written report at P.S. and then the police sent him to medical for treatment.	FAC
During his cross examination, he stated that at the time of incident he was standing 15 meters distance from the spot, but when he reached the spot the accused persons fled away.	FAC
He has admitted that he cannot say the obscene words used by the accused persons.	FAC
P.W.6 who is the Medical Officer deposed before the Court that on 5.9.2006 on police requisition, he examined one Sourav Sahoo (P.W.4) and found the injuries viz.	FAC
All the three injuries are bruise injuries out of which (i) one bruise of size 2cm x 2cm on the occipital region of scalp; (ii) one bruise of 0.5 cm x 1cm over upper eye lid; (iii) one bruise of size 3.5cm x 1cm in the right side of back over the scalp.	FAC
All the injuries are simple in nature and might have been caused by hard and blunt object.	FAC
He has proved the injury report vide Ext.2 and his signature on it vide Ext.2/1.	FAC
During his cross examination, P.W.6 stated that such type of injuries can be caused when one falls on a construction work place.	FAC
7. On perusal of the evidence on record, it is evident that P.Ws 1, 2, 3 and 7 have not supported the prosecution case in any manner.	ANALYSIS
Further, P.W.5 who is an occurrence witness has admitted in his cross examination that at the time of incident he was standing 15 meters away from the spot and when he reached the spot, the accused persons fled away.	ANALYSIS
Whereas in his examination- in-chief, he stated that the accused persons had demanded money from him first and when the informant arrived, they demanded money from him.	ANALYSIS
This fact denotes that this witness is not a reliable witness and the inconsistency in the statement of the said witness makes his presence doubtful and the prosecution case weak.	ANALYSIS
From the testimony of P.W.5, it is not clear as to if he was present at the spot when the whole occurrence took place.	ANALYSIS
Moreover, this witness could not specifically state the obscene words used by the accused persons to the informant (P.W.4).	ANALYSIS
With respect to the facts and circumstance of this case, I am of definite opinion that the presence of this witness at the scene of occurrence is doubtful and he has not seen the incident and he cannot be relied upon without having any strong corroboration.	ANALYSIS
Further, coming to the medical evidence of injuries of victim, it is admitted by P.W.6 (Medical Officer) that the injuries of P.W.4 can be caused by falling on a construction work place.	ANALYSIS
Now coming to the evidence of P.W.4 (informant- cum-victim), it is seen that though P.W.4 has corroborated to the contents of the FIR and proved the said FIR vide Ext.1, but he cannot said who had scribed the FIR which creates a suspicion regarding the FIR itself.	ANALYSIS
It is an admitted fact by P.Ws 4 and 5 that many people were gathered at the spot when the occurrence took place, but none of them have been examined by the prosecution to bring forth the truth before this Court.	ANALYSIS
Moreover, it is admitted by P.W.4 that the police has not seized his torn shirt.	ANALYSIS
Keeping in view the facts and essential ingredients of the alleged offence, I am of considered view that the accused persons cannot be convicted solely basing upon the evidence of victim (P.W.4) as there are many loopholes in the case of the prosecution and the testimony of P.W.4 cannot be relied upon without having any strong corroboration.	ANALYSIS
Moreover, the other P.Ws have also not supported or corroborated the version of P.W.4 (informant-cum-victim) except P.W.5 (occurrence witness), but his testimony could not relied upon as there are material contradictions.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, the prosecution has miserably failed to establish any of the essential ingredients of the offences punishable U/s 384/506/341/323/294/34.
8.	ANALYSIS
In the present case, after analyzing the evidence, I find it fair enough to acquit the accused persons on the ground that prosecution has miserably failed to prove the occurrence itself.	RATIO
9. In the result, the accused persons are found not guilty for the commission of offences U/s 384/506/341/323/294/34 of IPC and thereby he is acquitted therefrom U/S. 248(1) of the Cr.P.C.	RPC
The accused persons be set at liberty forthwith.	RPC
Their bail bond stands cancelled and surety be discharged.	RPC

 "Enter this case as mistake of facts for statistical purpose."
                 	RPC
Judgment is dictated and corrected by me, pronounced in the open court on this the 16th day of February, 2017 under my signature and seal of the Court.	NONE

 Judicial Magistrate First Class, Rourkela.	NONE

 List of Prosecution Witnesses: P.W.1 Gandu Oram.	NONE

P.W.2 Lambu Oram.	NONE

P.W.3 Mangra Oram.	NONE

P.W.4 Sourav Sahoo.	NONE

P.W.5 Mohammad Alam.	NONE

P.W.6 Dr. Sraban Kumar Pradhan.	NONE
P.W.7 Dhaneswar @	NONE
Dania Mahanta.	NONE

 List of Defence Witnesses: Nil.	NONE
List of Exts. marked for Prosecution: Ext.1    F.I.R.
 Ext.1/1  Signature of P.W.4 on Ext.1.
 Ext.2 Injury Report.
 Ext.2/1  Signature of P.W.6 on Ext.2.	NONE
List of Exts. marked for Defence: Nil.	NONE
List of material objects, if any: Nil.	NONE

 Judicial Magistrate First Class, Rourkela.	NONE
