IN THE COURT OF THE III ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE AT
                                           MYSORE.

                 	PREAMBLE
Dated this the 10th day of March, 2014	PREAMBLE
Present: Sri. Suresh S Kogilgeri, B.Com., LL.B.(Spl.),
                            III Addl.	PREAMBLE
Sessions Judge,	PREAMBLE

                             Mysore.	PREAMBLE


                       : Criminal Appeal No.173/2013 :	PREAMBLE


Appellants   : 1. Smt.Rajamani, W/o late Girish,
Respondents              aged about 33 years	PREAMBLE


                    2. Nithish, S/o late Girish, aged about	PREAMBLE

                         9 years

                    3. Supreeth, S/o late Girish, aged
                         	PREAMBLE
about 6 years

                    4. Chirag, S/o late Girish, aged about
                         8 years

                    Appellants 2 to 4 being minors
                    represented by 1st petitioner mother
                    Smt.Rajamani.	PREAMBLE
All are residing at
                    D.No.42, Medara Block, Bamboo
                    Bazaar, Mysore.

             {By	PREAMBLE
Sri S.Sundar Raj, Advocate}	PREAMBLE


             Vs.

             :	PREAMBLE
1. Parameshwara, 78 years	PREAMBLE


             2. Smt.Renukadevi,               w/o

             Parameshwara,	PREAMBLE
aged about 60

             years	PREAMBLE
3. Jagadeesha, S/o Parameshwara,
                  aged about 40 years

             4. Smt.Rajini, D/o Parameshwara, 35
                  years

             All are residing at D.No.751, 12th
             Cross, Vinayamarga, Siddarthanagar,
             Mysore.

             { By Sri S.P.Thyagaraj, Advocate for
             R1 to R4 }

                                                 2

                                     :	PREAMBLE
: JUDGMENT	PREAMBLE
:: This is a Criminal Appeal filed by the appellants against the respondents under Section 29 of Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act being aggrieved by the order dated 20- 05-2013 passed by the learned JMFC III Court, Mysore, in C.Mis.29/2012 wherein the leaned Magistrate has dismissed the application filed by the petitioners under Section 12 of Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act 2.	RLC
For the sake of convenience, the appellants and respondents will be referred with their original status as referred before the Trial Court.	FAC
Appellants are the petitioners and the respondents are the respondents before the Trial Court.	FAC

 3. Brief facts of the case of the petitioners before the Trial Court are as under: The 1st petitioner is the wife of one late Girish, son of 1st respondent.	FAC
Their marriage was taken place during June 2004 at Dharmastala in the presence of elders.	FAC
The respondents did not have attended the said marriage.	FAC
After the marriage, the 1st petitioner started residing with her husband happily.	FAC
On account of their wedlock, 2 male children and one female child were born to them.	FAC
The said children are petitioners-2 to 4.	FAC
The husband of the 1st petitioner was working in the office of Courier.	FAC
During the life time of the husband of the 1st petitioner, he used to take his children to his parents house.	FAC
He was not taking her to his parents house.	FAC
On 09-10-2011, her husband died on account of heart attack.	FAC
After the death of her husband, she is getting difficulty to maintain the life.	FAC
She has to repay the 3  Crl.A.No.173/2013 loan borrowed by her husband and she has to spend the amount towards educational expenses of her children and to pay the rent to the house.	FAC
So the 1st petitioner went to the house of the 1st respondent along with her children and asked him to help her.	FAC

But all the respondents abused her, assaulted her and sent her out from the said house.	FAC
The respondents have not given the share of her husband out of the joint family properties.	FAC
The 1st respondent is doing the business and getting an income of more than Rs.40,000/- per month.	FAC
He has given several houses on rent and earning income from the said rented houses.	FAC
He is financially well off.	FAC
The 1st respondent is not maintaining them.	FAC

So the petitioners have prayed to grant them the relief under Sections 18 to 20 and 22 of Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act as to the residence order, interim order, maintenance and to meet the expenses of her family.	FAC

 4. On the other hand, the respondents have appeared through their counsel and resisted the petition of the petitioners by filing objections and prayed to dismiss the same.	FAC
They contend that the averments made in paras-2 to 12 are all false.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The 1st petitioner is having only one son by name Girish.	FAC
They deny that the marriage of the 1st petitioner was taken place with the son of the 1st respondent.	FAC
They deny all other allegations made against them in the petition.	FAC
The petitioners did not resided with them at any point of time.	FAC
So the respondents have prayed to dismiss the petition of the petitioners.	FAC
5. The 1st respondent has also filed an Application on the question of maintainability of the petition.	FAC
The petitioners have 4 resisted the said Application filed by the 1st respondent by filing objections and prayed to dismiss the same.	FAC
6. The Learned Magistrate after hearing both the parties on the question of maintainability of the petition has dismissed the petition of the petitioners as not maintainable under the impugned order dated 20-05-2013.	RLC
7. Now, the petitioners being aggrieved by the aforesaid order passed by the Learned Magistrate have preferred the present Criminal Appeal under Section 29 of Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act praying to set aside the same on the following grounds: 1.	FAC
i  Pɼ          AiƮAiĪ îzgg CfAiģ Zgu iqz   U         Cg   z zR wU           gĲz îzgg CfAiģ ʸVP Ai v PU gzުV CfAiģ e irgvg.
 2. i  	FAC
Pɼ          AiƮAiĪ Jzgzgg            	FAC
z  Cf xAivAi               CfU îzgg vPgg z, zj vPgg CfAiģ gĲz JPJQ eirgvg.
 5  Crl.A.No.173/2013 3. i Pɼ AiƮAiĪ PAlĩP zd Pz PA 2 (Js) Pg PAlĩP AAzsz PPgg MAz jrAiİ   Aiivzg gP Cx wgP DU iv v Q F PzAirAiİ jg qAiĮ CgVgvg JAz s îzgg CfAiģ e irgvg.   Dzg, PAlĩP zd Pz PA 2 (Js)	FAC
AtV gĲzU	FAC
GsAi PPgg MAz jrAiİ wgPA AiĪĪã        PAqħAgĪŢ.
 EzP AAzslAv g GZ AiiAiU    wåU rz, CU UĤz îzgg       CfAiģ  e irgvg.
 4. i   	FAC
Pɼ     AiƮAiĪ Jzgzgg        îzgg CUɢz, JzgzggU îzgg U Cg U v Vjñ 6 VgĪŢAz          vPgg z, îzgg z gdĪwU      AAzlAv   z smUļ, r, Lr Pq, P̼ d        itv,      P̼ zsz it vU dgĥrz, CU i Pɼ AiƮAiĪ jðz îzgg v Vjñ Aqw JAz z gdĪv r   AiiAiĢAz                Dzñ qAiĨPAz ý îzgg CfAiģ e irgvg.
 5. i   	FAC
Pɼ        AiƮAiĪ AgPuPjU PAlĩP sl gAiģ AiiAiP z, Cg        gAi           Pg JzgzggU îzgjU PAlĩP zd qĪzi PAqħAz,                   i PɼAiiAiĪ AgPuPjU     gAiģ jðz              Jzgzgg 7  Crl.A.No.173/2013 îzgjU Aiiz PAlĩP zd JVAz wêiP Az îzgg CfAiģ e irgvg.
 6. i  	FAC
Pɼ     AiƮAiĪ Jzgzgg Pɼ AiiAiz Az z CfAi xvU AAzAv Zaz îzgg z U îzgg P̼ U CUvV Zaz, F Avz Czg CUvv Ezg  CUvV Za CfAiģ e irgvg.
 7.	FAC
i  Pɼ     AiƮAiĪ îzgg     dgĥrz zR wU jðz U  wAiģ jUtz CfAiģ e irgvg.	FAC

 So the appellants have prayed to set aside the order passed by the Learned Magistrate and to remand the matter to the Trial Court to dispose of the case on the merits of the case after recording evidence.	FAC
8 8. Secured Trial Court records.	FAC
Perused the Trial Court records and the impugned order passed by the Trial Court.	FAC
9. Heard arguments of the learned counsel for the petitioners and of the learned counsel for the respondents.
 10.	NONE
As this stage, the following Points have arisen for my determination: 1.	ISSUE
Whether the appellants have made out a case to set aside the impugned order passed by the Learned Magistrate and to remand back the matter to the Trial Court for fresh disposal in accordance with law?	ISSUE

 2. What Order?	ISSUE

 11. My findings on the aforesaid Points are held as under: Point No.1 : In the Affirmative Point No.2 : As per my final order, for the following: : R e a s o n s : 12	ANALYSIS
. Point No.1:- I have gone through the records of the case.	ANALYSIS
The petitioners had filed a petition under Sec.12 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act and prayed to grant them various reliefs under Secs.19(1), 22, 18, ,19 and 20 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act contending that the petitioner No.1 is the wife and petitioners-2 to 4 are the children of one late Girish.	ANALYSIS
Said late Girish is the son of respondents-1 and 2.	ANALYSIS
Respondent No.3 is the brother of late Girish and 4th respondent is the sister of Girish.	ANALYSIS
The petitioner No.1 contends that her marriage was taken place with the aforesaid Girish during June 2004.	ANALYSIS
Their marriage was a 9  Crl.A.No.173/2013 love marriage.	ANALYSIS
The respondents did not attend their marriage.	ANALYSIS

After the marriage, the 1st petitioner started living with her husband Girish happily.	ANALYSIS
Out of their wedlock, 2 male children and one female child were born to them.	ANALYSIS
During the life time of Girish, he used to take the children to his parents house, but he was not taking her there.	ANALYSIS
Subsequently on 09-10-2011, Girish died on account of heart attack.	ANALYSIS
Now she is not able to maintain herself and her children.	ANALYSIS
Her husband had incurred loan for the business during his life time.	ANALYSIS
Now she has to repay the said loan.	ANALYSIS
There are joint family properties in which her husband has a share.	ANALYSIS
The respondents are not giving the share of her husband.	ANALYSIS
When she asked for the same, all the respondents have abused her, assaulted her and sent her out from their house.	ANALYSIS
Under such circumstances, the petitioners have prayed various reliefs under the provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act referred above.	ANALYSIS

 13. On the other hand, the respondents have denied the very relationship of petitioners with late Girish-son of 1st respondent and denied all other allegations made by the petitioners in the petition.	ANALYSIS
14. During the proceedings of the case, the 1st respondent has filed an application on the question of maintainability of the petition and the petitioners have filed objections for the same.	ANALYSIS
The Learned Magistrate after hearing both the parties has dismissed the petition filed by the petitioners under Sec.12 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act by holding that the petition of the petitioners is not maintainable and observed that the petitioners have to get their rights settled in a 10 Civil Court.	RLC
The petitioners in support of their case have produced C.D., Marriage Invitation Card, Marriage Photographs, Death Certificate of Girish, Birth Certificates of petitioners-2 to 4 in support of their case.	ANALYSIS
Though the marriage of petitioner No.1 was taken place with late Girish during June 2004 as contended in the petition by the petitioners, the Birth Certificate of 4th petitioner goes to show that he was born on 17-01-2005 and one Birth Certificate goes to show that one Nanjunda was born to the 1st petitioner and late Girish on 24-11-2003, i.e. prior to the marriage of 1st petitioner with late Girish.	ANALYSIS
Said Nanjunda is not impleaded as a party to the petition.	ANALYSIS
Admittedly in the instant case, the evidence of the petitioners and respondents is not recorded by the Trial Court.	ANALYSIS
Only after hearing both the parties, the Trial Court had dismissed the petition of the petitioners.	ANALYSIS
Under such circumstances, the petitioners contend that they should be given an opportunity to adduce their oral and documentary evidence to prove their case.	ARG_PETITIONER
At this stage, the learned counsel for the petitioners in support of their case has relied on the following decisions reported in: (1) I (2013) DMC 530 wherein his Lordship of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court has observed as under: "Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005  Sections 2(f), 3, 12  Maintenance  Grant of relief  `Domestic relationship'  `Shared household'  	ARG_PETITIONER
Evidence is given by petitioner-wife on factum of marriage, cohabitation - She has proved that she falls under Section 2(f) of the Act  	ARG_PETITIONER
JMFC committed no error in granting relief of maintenance allowance to petitioner- Impugned judgment and order of Sessions Court quashed and set aside."	ARG_PETITIONER

 11  Crl.A.No.173/2013 (2) I (2013) DMC 196 (DB) wherein their Lordships of Hon'ble Orissa High Court has observed as under: "(ii) Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005  Section 3 Explanation IV, Section 12  Maintenance  Grant of monthly maintenance till share in joint family property  Validity  Husband has a right in the joint family properties  After husband's death, wife acquired such right  since she was not given share in the joint family properties, lower Courts rightly granted monthly maintenance to O.P. wife till she gets a share in petitioner's properties  Award of maintenance @ Rs.1000 p.m. by ASJ till she gets her share in ancestral properties - Not on higher side."
 (3) III (2011) DMC 850 wherein his Lordships of Hon'ble Bombay High Court has observed as under: "Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005- Sections 27, 27(2)  "Reside"
          Meaning of expression  It implies something more than a casual stay and concrete intention to remain at particular place but not merely to pay casual or flying visit  JMFC directed to consider application afresh by giving full opportunity to parties concerned to put forward their respective contentions along with oral documentary evidence in support of their rival contentions and to decide application challenging jurisdiction of Court to entertain and try proceedings."	ARG_PETITIONER

 15. I have gone through the principles laid down in the aforesaid decisions with reference to the facts and circumstances of the present case.	RATIO
Admittedly the Trial Court has not recorded the evidence of both the parties.	RATIO
No opportunity was given to the petitioners to adduce their oral and documentary evidence to prove their case before the Court.	RATIO
The 12 Trial Court instead of giving such an opportunity to the petitioners, dismissed the petition of the petitioners as not maintainable.	RATIO
It is opposed to the principles of natural justice which requires that every one should be given an opportunity to place their case before passing the final orders.	RATIO
The reasons given by the Trial Court in the impugned order are not acceptable one.	RATIO
Under such circumstances, I am of the opinion that the impugned order passed by the Trial Court has to be set aside and the matter has to be remanded back to the Trial Court for fresh disposal in accordance with law after giving an opportunity to both the parties to place oral and documentary evidence in respect of their respective cases.	RATIO
Accordingly, I set aside the impugned order passed by the Trial Court and remand back the matter to the Trial Court for fresh disposal in accordance with law for the reasons stated by me supra.	RATIO

Accordingly, I answer Point No.1 in the Affirmative.	RATIO

 16. Point No.2:-	RPC
In the result, I proceed to pass the following: :: ORDER ::	RPC
The appeal filed by the appellants under Sec.29 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act is hereby allowed.	RPC
The impugned order dated 20-05- 2013 passed by learned JMFC (III Court), Mysore in C.Mis.No.29/2012 is hereby set aside.
 	RPC
The matter has been remanded back to the Trial Court for fresh disposal in accordance with law after giving an opportunity to both parties to adduce oral 13  Crl.A.No.173/2013 and documentary evidence in support of their respective cases.	RPC

 (Dictated to the Judgment Writer, the transcript revised, corrected and then pronounced by me in open court on this the 10th day of March, 2014) (Suresh S Kogilgeri) III	NONE
Addl.Sessions Judge Mysore.	NONE
Order pronounced in open court (vide separate order)	NONE
:: ORDER ::	NONE
The appeal filed by the appellants under Sec.29 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act is hereby allowed.	RPC
The impugned order dated 20-05-2013 passed by learned JMFC (III Court), Mysore in C.Mis.No.29/2012 is hereby set aside.
 	RPC
The matter has been remanded back to the Trial Court for fresh disposal in accordance with law after giving an opportunity to both parties to adduce oral and documentary evidence in support of their respective cases.	RPC

 III Addl.Sessions Judge Mysore.	NONE
