IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BANGALORE

DATED THIS THE 19TH DAY OF JUNE 2012

                          BEFORE	PREAMBLE


THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE ANAND BYRAREDDY	PREAMBLE


       CRIMINAL REVISION PETITION No.1307 OF 2005	PREAMBLE
BETWEEN :

1. Venkataramanappa,
    Son of Kondappa,
    Aged about 60 years,

2. Rangadhamappa,
    @ Venkataramanappa,
    Son of Kurlappa,
    Aged about 35 years,

3. Krishnappa,
    @ Venkataramanappa,
    Son of Kurlappa,
    Aged about 30 years,

4. Kempappa,
    Son of Thimappa,
    Aged about 32 years,

All are residing at Kadagattur Village,    ...PETITIONERS
Madhugiri Taluk,
Tumkur District.

(By Shri. B.Anand, Advocate
for Shri. K.Nagabhushana Reddy, Advocate)

AND:

State of Karnataka by             ...RESPONDENT
Kodigenahally Police Station.

(By Shri. P.Karunakara, High Court Government Pleader)

                                            ******
        	PREAMBLE
This Criminal Revision Petition filed under Section 397 read
with 401 Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 by the advocate for the
petitioners praying that this Hon'ble Court may be pleased to set
aside the order of conviction and sentence passed by the
Principal Judicial Magistrate First Class, Madhugiri, in
C.C.No.93/2001 dated 31.5.2004 and also the order passed by	PREAMBLE

the Presiding Officer, Fast Track Court-IV, Tumkur, in	PREAMBLE
Criminal
Appeal No.21/2005 dated 15.7.2005.	PREAMBLE


        This Criminal Revision Petition is coming on for Hearing	PREAMBLE
,
this day, the court made the following:

                                         O R D E R	PREAMBLE

        Heard the learned counsel for the petitioners and the learned Government Pleader.	NONE
2. The facts leading up to this case are as follows: The petitioners were the accused before the Courts below in the following circumstances.	FAC
It transpires that these petitioners had picked up a quarrel with the complainant and that there was enmity which was long standing between the petitioners and the PW2 the victim.	FAC
It transpires that it was alleged as to petitioner No.1 having assaulted PW2 with a sickle on his left ear and as a result of which he has suffered a cut injury and that the petitioner No.2 had assaulted him with the club on the left hand of PW2 and that the petitioners No.3 and 4 had joined the petitioners No.1 and 2 by assaulting with their bear hands.	FAC
It was, therefore, alleged that the petitioners had committed offences punishable under Section 326, 324, 323 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as "IPC", for brevity).	FAC
Thereafter, PW2 was admitted to hospital for treatment as an out-patient and on the next day, the complaint was lodged by PW1 on the basis of which the proceedings were initiated and during the course of investigation, the petitioners were arrested and it is alleged that petitioner No.1 had made a voluntary statement and had produced the weapons used in the commission of the offence and the same were seized under a mahazar and the accused- petitioners were produced before the jurisdictional Court and after further investigation, a charge sheet was filed against the petitioners and the petitioners having pleaded not guilty and claiming to have been tried, the prosecution examined nine witnesses and marked several exhibits including MO.1 and 2.	FAC
On the basis of the evidence tendered and the arguments canvassed, the following points were framed by the Court below for consideration: 1.	ISSUE
Whether the prosecution proves beyond all reasonable doubt that on 6.4.2000 at about 6.00 p.m. in front of V.S.S.N., Kadagathur, when CW.1- Aswathappa and CW.2-Gangappa were returning from Jathra at that time, accused No.1 to 4 with an common intention to commit a cognizable offence, having previous enemity, picked up quarrel, with the said CW.1 and 2 and accused No.1 voluntarily assaulted CW.2 on his left ear with a Chopper (matchu) and voluntarily caused grievous hurt to him and that thereby, the accused persons have committed an offence punishable under Section 326 read with 34 of I.P.C.?
 2.	ISSUE
Whether the prosecution further proves beyond all reasonable doubt that on the above said date, time and place, in furtherance of common intention, accused No.2, voluntarily caused hurt to CW.2 on his left hand with a club and caused bleeding injury, and that thereby the accused persons have committed an offence punishable under Section 324 read with 34 of I.P.C.?	ISSUE

 3. Whether the prosecution further proves beyond all reasonable doubt that on the above said date, time and place, the accused Nos,3 and 4 in furtherance of their common intention, voluntarily caused hurt to CW.2 with hands and caused bodily pain to him and that thereby the accused persons have committed an offence punishable under Section 323 r/w 34 of I.P.C.?
 4. What order?	ISSUE

 3. The Court below has answered points 1 to 3 in the affirmative and convicted the petitioners for an offence punishable under Section 323 IPC to undergo simple imprisonment for three months and for the offence punishable under Section 326 IPC for two years and also to pay a fine of Rs.1,000/- each and for the offences punishable under Section 324 IPC, the accused were sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for six months and to pay a fine of Rs.500/- each.	RLC
This having been carried in appeal, the appellate Court had modified the sentence imposed while dismissing the appeal to hold that the sentence of imprisonment imposed by the Trial Court shall run concurrently.	RLC
It is that, which is under challenged in the present Revision Petition.	FAC
4. The learned counsel for the petitioners would point out that having regard to the facts and circumstances, the Courts below have committed an error in holding that the charges against the petitioners have been established beyond all reasonable doubt.	ARG_PETITIONER
There was a delay in lodging the complaint, which has not been taken into consideration.	ARG_PETITIONER
No reasonable explanation has been given by PW1 in this regard.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is not in dispute that PW1 and PW2 are brothers and therefore the evidence of PW1 was that of an interested witness and it is also an admitted circumstance that though it was stated that there was standing enmity between the petitioners and PW2 and his family, the prosecution had not made any attempt to prove such enmity or that it was a motive for the alleged commissioning of the offence by the petitioners.	ARG_PETITIONER
There is also a glaring circumstance that PW1, in his cross-examination, has admitted that after the alleged incident, PW2 was taken to the hospital at 10.30 p.m.	ARG_PETITIONER
However, PW7 the medical practitioner, who is said to have attended on PW2 had indicated that he had administered treatment at 7.35 p.m.	ARG_PETITIONER
This is a glaring contradiction would which indicate that the true facts were not before the Court, and therefore, Exhibit P4 the wound certificate, was clearly a manipulation to implicate the petitioners.	ARG_PETITIONER
Further, PW2, who was said to be the injured victim, had stated that he had not made any statement before the concerned police and he had also stated that PWs 1 and 4 were about 50 feet away from the incident, but, there were contradictory statements of the other witnesses.	ARG_PETITIONER
This has not been sought to be explained and the Courts below have glossed over the same.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is further contended that PW4 was an alleged eye-witness who had turned hostile and he had also admitted that MOs.1 and 2 were left behind at the spot and he had handed over the same to the police.	ARG_PETITIONER
However, PW5 the investigating officer, had stated that there was a voluntary statement by accused No.1, petitioner No.1 herein, and that it is pursuant to his statement that the said MOs.1 and 2 had been recovered.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is also stated that there were no blood stains on the said weapons and it is inexplicable that it was alleged as a result of the assault with the club by accused No.2, there was a bleeding cut injury, which is totally inexplicable.	ARG_PETITIONER
Whereas, the evidence of the medical practitioner was to the effect that injury caused by the club had resulted in a contusion, and therefore, these infirmities have not been sufficiently explained.	ARG_PETITIONER
While, more importantly, the learned counsel for the petitioners would point out that insofar as the allegation that the petitioners were guilty of committing an offence punishable under Section 326 IPC require that the alleged injury caused was required to be of a grievous nature to invoke Section 326 IPC.	ARG_PETITIONER
Having regard to the nature of the injuries, as described under Exhibit P4, the injuries are of a minor nature and the mere statement by the medical practitioner that they are of a grievous nature would not bring it within the scope of Section 326 IPC.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is further stated that insofar as the petitioners 3 and 4 at the trial are concerned, there is no material to link them with the alleged incident.	ARG_PETITIONER
The allegations against them are that they assaulted PW2 with their bare hands.	ARG_PETITIONER
The medical practitioner had not indicated any such injuries which could have been caused by such assault and in the absence of any evidence in that regard, it could not be said that any case was made out against the petitioners 3 and 4 and there is also no evidence to indicate that they had any truck with the petitioners 1 and 2 and hence the allegation of there being a common intention of the petitioner and of petitioners 3 and 4 being involved is a make-believe allegation, merely to implicate the said petitioners.	ARG_PETITIONER
Therefore, the learned counsel would submit that the entire case is stage-managed only to implicate the petitioners and they ought to be acquitted, or in the alternative, he would submit that the punishment imposed being glaringly disproportionate to the alleged injuries said to have been caused to PW2, would have to be drastically modified for the reason that no offence is made out under Section 326 IPC and even if there were injuries caused and an offence under Section 324 IPC is made out and the punishment imposed is disproportionate and would have to be set at naught.	ARG_PETITIONER

 5. The learned Government Pleader would seek to justify that the judgement of the Trial Court which has been affirmed in appeal and would submit that the findings are findings of fact which are characterised as being without any basis and this is an incorrect contention and the learned Government Pleader would seek to take this Court through the record to demonstrate that the so called inconsistencies, which are sought to be thrown up by the learned Counsel for the petitioner, are not in fact inconsistencies which would go to the root of the matter and may be ascribed to the time lapse between the date of incident and the date of the trial and hence it is inevitable that there are minor discrepancies which cannot be said to be fatal to the case of the prosecution.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The fact remains that PW2 was injured and the injuries having been established and since the matter has been investigated independently by the jurisdictional police, it cannot be said that the petitioners have been falsely implicated in a case in the face of injuries caused and the evidence of other independent witnesses on the basis of which the Courts below have imposed nominal punishment even though punishment of a higher degree could have been imposed in the eye of law, having regard to the circumstances of the case and therefore would seek dismissal of the present petition.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 6. In the light of the rival contentions, and from a close perusal of the record, it may straight away be said that insofar as petitioners 3 and 4 are concerned, the allegations that there was a common intention between them and petitioners 1 and 2 and they had together caused injuries to PW2 is not established insofar as the petitioners 3 and 4 are concerned in the absence of any material evidence against them.	ANALYSIS
Insofar as petitioners 1 and 2 are concerned, the injuries which PW2 has suffered cannot be self-inflicted, it is therefore not possible to accept the contention that no incident has occurred at all.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of the several witnesses would establish and would be consistent with the allegations that the petitioner No.1 had caused injury to the left ear of PW2 with a sickle and that he was also injured on his left hand with a club by accused No.2.	ANALYSIS
The question then, would be whether the offence committed by the said accused would be an offence punishable under Section 324 or Section 326 IPC.	ANALYSIS
As rightly pointed out by the learned Counsel for the petitioners, Section 320 IPC, which describes "Grievous hurt", gives 8 possible kinds of hurt which may be characterised as grievous hurt, the injuries caused to PW2 do not fall within any of those categories and from a description of the injuries they may be charaterised only as simple injuries which were not likely to cause the death of the victim, in which event, it could not be said that an offence punishable under Section 326 IPC had been committed by the petitioners 1 and 2 and at best it was an offence punishable under Section 324 IPC.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, the conviction of the petitioners for an offence punishable under Section 326 IPC is misplaced and is not supported by the material evidence on record.	ANALYSIS
Insofar as the punishment imposed under Section 324 IPC, again, may be on the higher side going by the nature of injuries caused.	ANALYSIS
When it was quite possible that there was a scuffle in which the victim also may have retaliated, in which event, the punishment that could have been imposed especially in the light of the circumstance that there was running enmity between the petitioners and the victim even according to the prosecution, the message that the petitioners 1 and 2 should conduct themselves in a more civil manner would be brought home, if they are made to feel the hardship of having to pay hard-earned money as fine, rather than the petitioners being incarcerated to fuel their enmity even higher.	ANALYSIS
Hence, in the opinion of this Court, while setting aside the punishment imposed under Section 326 IPC as also the punishment imposed under Section 323 IPC sentencing the accused to undergo simple imprisonment for three months and while modifying the punishment imposed under Section 324 IPC and reducing the same to payment of fine of Rs.5,000/-, ends of justice would be met.	RATIO

 7. Accordingly, the judgements of the Courts below are set aside.	RPC
The punishment imposed on the accused for offences punishable under Section 323 and 324 of the Indian Penal Code is reduced to payment of fine of Rs.5,000/- each, shall be payable jointly and severally, by the accused petitioners 1 and 2 and out of such fine to be paid by the accused, a sum of Rs.9,000/- shall be paid to PW2 as compensation, in terms of Section 357 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.	RPC
The punishment imposed as against accused No.3 and 4 is set aside on all three counts.	RPC

 Sd/- JUDGE lnn	NONE
