IN THE COURT OF THE I ADDL.	PREAMBLE
SESSIONS	PREAMBLE
JUDGE AT
                                    MYSURU

                  	PREAMBLE
Dated this the 5th day of January, 2016

             PRESENT:	PREAMBLE
Smt. Shridevi S.Angadi, B.A., LL.M.,	PREAMBLE

                                I Addl. Sessions Judge,
                                Mysuru.
                                              **	PREAMBLE
*

                CRIMINAL MISC.	PREAMBLE
No.2475/2015	PREAMBLE


Petitioner:	PREAMBLE
Mallesh S/o. Ramanna, aged

             about  25  years,        R/at

             	PREAMBLE
Kasuvinahalli	PREAMBLE
Village, Kasaba	PREAMBLE


             Hobli, Nanjangud Taluk.	PREAMBLE
( By Sri.K.Tharakaraman, Advocate )

             -Vs-

Respondent:  State of Karnataka, represented
             by Nanjangud Rural Police,
             Station, Nanjangud Taluk.

             ( By Learned Public Prosecutor )
                     ***

      ORDERS ON BAIL PETITION FILED BY THE PETITIONER UNDER SECTION 438 OF Cr.P.C.
 ]	PREAMBLE
This criminal petition is filed by the petitioner under Section 438 of Code of Criminal Procedure, praying to enlarge him on anticipatory bail in the event of his arrest in Crime No.244/2015 of Nanjangud Rural Police Station, which is registered for the offences punishable under Section 448, 504, 506, 427, 353 r/w Section 34 of I.P.C.
 2 2.	FAC
The learned Public Prosecutor has filed objection statement and opposed the bail petition.	FAC
3. Heard the learned Counsel for the petitioner and learned Public Prosecutor	NONE
.
 4. The points that arise for my consideration are: 1) Whether the petitioner is entitled for anticipatory bail as prayed in the petition ?
 2) What order ?
 5.	ISSUE
My answers to the above points are as under: Point No.(1) :: In the Affirmative, Point No.(2) :: As per the final order, for the following: REASONS 6. Point No.1:	NONE
The petitioner is apprehending his arrest at the hands of the respondent in the criminal case bearing Crime No.244/2015 on the file of Nanjangud Rural Police Station, for the alleged offences punishable under Section 448, 504, 506, 427, 353 r/w Section 34 of I.P.C. Hence, the anticipatory bail application is filed by the petitioner under Section 438 of Cr.P.C.
 7.	NONE
The records placed before the Court reveal that, criminal case is registered on the basis of the first information filed by Sri.Somanna on 17.12.2015.	FAC
In the complaint, it is alleged that, he is working as Development Officer in Kasuvinahalli Grama 3  Crl.Mis.No.2 475/15 Panchayath since 1 years.	FAC
Their Grama Panchayath has undertook certain developmental works from Government side under NMR Scheme.	FAC
Likewise, one house has been granted in favour of Nanjamani, W/o. Chikkanna.	FAC
Though the bill amount at first instance has been released, on 17.12.2015 at about 04.15 p.m., when he was in his Office, one Nandish-the son of Chikkanna and his friends illegally trespassed into the Office, abused in filthy language, prevented him from discharging his public duty and committed mischief by damaging one chair.	FAC

Further, they have also threatened him with dire consequences.	FAC

Hence, the complainant has requested the Police to take action against the Nandish and others.	FAC

 8. The learned Public Prosecutor submits that, the offences alleged against the petitioner are serious in nature.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The petitioner is absconding from the date of offence.	ARG_RESPONDENT
He has not produced any documents in respect of his occupation, residence and identification.	ARG_RESPONDENT
He has not given sufficient reason for his release on bail.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Investigation is not yet completed.	ARG_RESPONDENT
If at this stage, the petitioner is enlarged on bail, he may abscond, tamper the prosecution witnesses, commit similar offence and hamper the investigation.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Hence, the learned Public Prosecutor has requested to dismiss the bail petition.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 9. On the other hand, the learned Counsel for the petitioner submits that, the petitioner is an innocent, law abiding citizen and he has not committed any offence as alleged by the Police.	ARG_PETITIONER

He has been falsely implicated in the case.	ARG_PETITIONER
In the complaint, the allegations are made only against accused No.1.	ARG_PETITIONER
The petitioner is the only earning member in his family.	ARG_PETITIONER
If he is not released 4 on bail, he and his family members will be put to great hardship and injury.	ARG_PETITIONER
The offences alleged are not punishable with death or life imprisonment.	ARG_PETITIONER
The petitioner is the permanent resident of Kasuvinahalli Village of Nanjangud Taluk.	ARG_PETITIONER
He is an agriculturist and owns both movable and immovable properties.	ARG_PETITIONER
The learned Counsel for the petitioner submits that his client is ready to abide by any conditions that may be imposed by this Court and make himself available before the Investigating Officer as and when required.	ARG_PETITIONER
Hence, requested to grant anticipatory bail in favour of the petitioner.	ARG_PETITIONER
10. After going through the records, this Court is of the considered opinion that, the alleged offences are not exclusively punishable by death or life imprisonment and all the offences are triable by the Magistrate Court.	ANALYSIS
Further, the learned Counsel appearing for the petitioner has submitted that accused No.1 is already on bail, hence on the ground of parity, the petitioner is also entitled for bail.	ANALYSIS
The petitioner is permanent resident of Kasuvinahalli of Nanjangud Taluk.	ANALYSIS
Hence, there is no chance of his absconding or fleeing from justice.	ANALYSIS
The learned Counsel for the petitioner submits that his client has undertaken to abide by any conditions that may be imposed by this Court and also to make himself available for investigation as and when required.	ARG_PETITIONER
The submission made by the learned Counsel for the petitioner is taken on record.	RATIO
Hence, the apprehension of the learned Public Prosecutor could be met with by imposing suitable conditions.	RATIO

With these observations, I hold point No.1 in the affirmative.	RPC

 11. Point No.2:	RPC
In view of my finding on point No.1 in the affirmative, I proceed to pass the following: 3  Crl.Mis.No.2 475/15 ORDER The petition filed under Section 438 of Cr.P.C. is allowed.
 	RPC
The petitioner is ordered to be released on anticipatory bail in the event of his arrest by the Police in Crime No.244/2015 for the offences punishable under Section 448, 504, 506, 427, 353 r/w Section 34 of I.P.C., on executing personal bond for Rs.50,000/- (Rupees fifty thousand only) with one surety for the likesum to the satisfaction of the Investigating Officer within 15 days from this day, subject to the following conditions: 1. The petitioner shall surrender before the concerned Investigating Officer within 15 days from this day without fail and execute the bond as indicated above; 2. The petitioner shall co-operate in conducting due investigation; 3. The petitioner shall not hold out threats to the prosecution witnesses and shall not try to lure or tamper them in any manner; 4.	RPC
The petitioner shall not involve himself in any kind of criminal activities; 5. The petitioner shall make himself available before the Investigating Officer whenever his presence is required for further investigation and assist in the investigation; 6.	RPC
The petitioner shall mark his attendance before the concerned Police Station on 1st and 16th of every month, between 10.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m., till filing of charge- sheet; 7.	RPC
The petitioner shall move for regular bail before the concerned Court within 30 days from this day and this order will be in force till that regular bail application is decided.	RPC

It is made clear that regular bail 6 application will be decided by the concerned Court independently being uninfluenced by this Order.	RPC

 ( Dictated to the judgment writer, transcribed by her and after corrections, signed and pronounced by me in open Court on this the 5th day of January, 2016. )	NONE
( Shridevi S. Angadi )	NONE
I Addl. Sessions Judge, Mysuru.	NONE

 3  Crl.Mis.No.2 475/15	NONE
