PETITIONER:
MAHINDRA ENGINEERING AND CHEMICAL PRODUCTS LTD.

Vs.

RESPONDENT:
UNION OF INDIA AND ORS.

DATE OF JUDGMENT21/01/1992	PREAMBLE
BENCH:
SAHAI, R.M. (J)
BENCH:
SAHAI, R.M. (J)
PANDIAN, S.R. (J)

CITATION:                1992 SCC (1) 727
 1992 SCR (1) 254        1992 SCALE (1)95
 JT 1992 (1) 276

ACT:
         Central Excise-Tariff-Item NO. 22 F(4)-Construction-

Legislative intention-"Following namely", "that is to say",
"other manufacture", "manufacture therefrom"-Meaning.

         Central Excise-Tariff-Item No.22F (4), Item No.68-Glass
fabric manufactured out mineral fiber-Whether exigible to
duty-Arc Chamber housing manufactured from glass fabric-
Duty-Exigibility.

HEADNOTE:
         The appellant was manufacturing the tubular shaped are

chamber housings from glass fabrics.	PREAMBLE
The Assistant Collector levied duty under tariff Item

No.22F(4) of the Central Excise and Tariff Act.	PREAMBLE
It was held
that the goods were covered under tariff item 22F(4) as the
percentage of the mineral fibre yarn was predominant in the
weight.

         	PREAMBLE
The Collector in appeal held that the words
"manufactured therefrom" in tariff Item No. 22F(4) would
include not only first manufacture of mineral fibre and yarn
but also subsequent manufacture where in mineral fibre or
yarn was used.

         	PREAMBLE
The Tribunal affirmed the order of the Collector, on
construction of the expression "manufacture therefrom", and
held that the goods should be manufactured from mineral
fibre and yarn, that glass fabric was an intermediate stage
between glass are housing and glass fibre or yarn, yet the
goods were exigible to duty under item 22F(4), as the arc
housing chamber did not cease to be manufactured of glass
fibre/yarn, merely because the fibre/yarn was first woven
into glass fabric, and that if glass fibers/yarn were to be
woven into fabrics before they could be used in the
manufacture of the housing, the housing would not cease to
be a manufacture of glass fibres/yarn.

         	PREAMBLE
A five-judge Bench of the CEGAT did not agree with the
interpretation
put by the Tribunal and held that the entry applied to only
those products the manufacture or attendant function of
which was to do something with mineral fibre and yarn and it
did not apply to a product in which only mineral fibre or
yarn was used.

         	PREAMBLE
Against the order of CEGAT, the appellant manufacturer
preferred the appeal before this Court by special leave.	PREAMBLE


         Allowing the appeal, this Court,
         HELD: 1.01.	PREAMBLE
The entry is in two parts, one, descriptive
and the other explanatory.	PREAMBLE
Both are to be read together to
bring out the scope and extent of its applicability fully.	PREAMBLE
The first declares the items which are exigible to duty but
restricts it to only those in relation to the manufacture of
which any process is ordinarily carried on with the aid of
power. The words `following namely' used in the second part
explains the items that were intended to be covered in this
entry.	PREAMBLE
Use of expressions `namely' or `that is to say'
followed by description of goods is usually exhaustive
unless there are strong indications to the contrary.	PREAMBLE
[257 G
258 A]
         1.02.	PREAMBLE
Language of serial no. 4 is plain and simple.	PREAMBLE
It
intends to clarify the expression `manufacture therefrom' by
expanding it to include in its ambit even those manufactures
in which fibre or yarn predominated in weight.	PREAMBLE
But it did
not go beyond it and purported to include manufactures out
of manufacture of a commodity in which mineral fibre or yarn
predominated.	PREAMBLE
Any other construction would result in
altering the principal clause.	PREAMBLE
That would be contrary to
the scheme of the entry and principle of construction.	PREAMBLE
Its
only effect was to include even those manufactures in which
mineral fibre or yarn or both predominate.	PREAMBLE
It could not be
extended to those goods which were manufactured out of
certain commodity in which mineral fibre or yarn had been
predominately used.	PREAMBLE
[258 A-B, D]
         1.03.	PREAMBLE
The word `other manufacture' has to be read in
the same sense as `manufacture therefrom' used in the main
part.	PREAMBLE
The only difference is that the scope has been
widened to include not only those goods which were
manufactured from mineral or yarn but even to those in which
they predominate.	PREAMBLE
[258 D-E]	PREAMBLE

         2.01	PREAMBLE
. Glass fabric manufactured out of mineral fibre
is exigible to duty under Item no. 4 but arc chamber housing
manufactured
from glass fabric cannot be placed at par with glass fabric
and cannot be considered as `other manufacture' of glass
fibre or yarn.	PREAMBLE
[258 F]

         2.02.	PREAMBLE
The arc chamber housing manufactured out of
glass fabric	PREAMBLE
are held to be exigible to duty during the
relevant period under item no.68.	PREAMBLE
[258 F]

JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE

         Geep Flashlight Industries v. Union of India, 1986(6) ELR 430, referred to.	NONE

& CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 3251 of From the Judgment and Order dated 8.3.1984 of the Customs Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi in Appeal No. ED(SB)(T) A.No 1132 of 1983-D.	NONE
[Order No.168/84-D).	NONE

 S.Ganesh and Amitabh Marwah for the Appellants.	NONE

         C.V. Subba Rao for the Respondents.	NONE

         The Judgment of the Court was delivered by R.M.SAHAI, J.	NONE
The question of law that arises for consideration in this appeal directed against Order of the Customs, Excise & Gold (Control) Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as `CEGAT'), New Delhi, is if the tubular shaped arc chamber housings manufactured by the appellants from glass fabrics which they purchased from manufacturers was exigible to duty under tariff Item No. 2 F(4) or under residuary Item No. 68 of the Central Excise and Tariff Act.	ISSUE

 Manner of manufacture of arc chamber housing was not in dispute nor there was any dispute that it was manufactured from glass fabric purchased from open market in which glass fibre predominated.	FAC
The issue was whether the arc chamber manufactured from glass fibre, a product of intermediate stage and not directly from mineral fibre or yarn was exigible to duty under Item 22F(4) which read as under: "22.F. Mineral fibres and yarn and manufacturers therefrom, in or in relation to the manufacturer of which any process is ordinarily carried on with the aid of power, the following, namely; (1) Glass fibres and yarn including glass tissues and glass wool; (2) asbestos fibre and yarn; (3) any other mineral fibre or yarn, whether continuous or otherwise, such as, slag wool and rock wool; (4) Other manufacturers in which mineral fibres or yarn or both predominate or predominates in weight.	ISSUE

 Explanation:- This item does not include asbestos cement products."	ANALYSIS
The Assistant Collector held that the goods were covered under tariff Item 22 F(4) as the percentage of the mineral fibre yarn was predominant in the weight.	FAC
In appeal it was held that the words "manufactured therefrom" in tariff Item No. 22 F(4) would include not only first manufacture of mineral fibre and yarn but also subsequent manufacture wherein mineral fibre or yarn was used.	FAC
The order was affirmed by the Tribunal on construction of the expression "manufacture therefrom" which were capable of a simple and straight away meaning that the goods should be manufactured from mineral fibre and yarn.	FAC
The CEGAT held that glass fabric was no doubt an intermediate stage between glass arc housing and glass fibre or yarn yet the goods were exigible to duty under 22 F(4), as the arc housing chamber did not cease to be manufacture of glass fibre/yarn merely because the fibre/yarn was first woven into glass fabric.	RLC
It rejected the claim of appellant as the construction suggested would result in reading the word directly in item No. 22 F(4).	RLC
It was found that if glass fibres/yarn were to be woven into fabrics before they could be used in the manufacture of the housing, the housing would not cease to be a manufacture of glass fibres/yarn.	RLC
Subsequently a five- Judge Bench of the CEGAT did not agree with the interpretation put by the Tribunal in this case, and held that the entry applied to only those products the manufacture or attendant function of which was to do something with mineral fibre and yarn.	RLC
It did not apply to a product in which only mineral fibre or yarn was used.	RLC

         The entry is in two parts, one descriptive and the other explanatory.	ANALYSIS
Both are to be read together to bring out the scope and extent of its applicability fully.	ANALYSIS
The first declares the items which are exigible to duty.	ANALYSIS
But restricts it to only those in relation to the manufacture of which any process is ordinarily carried on with the aid of power.	ANALYSIS
Having thus specified the items and the condition on which it would be covered in the entry it proceeds to amplify it in the second part by using the words `following namely' thus explaining the items that were intended to be covered in this entry.	ANALYSIS
Use of expressions `namely', or `that is to say' followed by description of goods is usually exhaustive unless there are strong indications to the contrary.	ANALYSIS
Language of serial no. 4 is plain and simple.	ANALYSIS
It intends to clarify the expression `manufacture therefrom' by expanding it to include in its ambit even those manufacture in which fibre or yarn predominated in weight.	ANALYSIS
But it did not go beyond it and purported to include manufactures out of manufacture of a commodity in which mineral fibre or yarn predominated.	ANALYSIS
The entry was added in 1980.	ANALYSIS
That gave an occasion for the learned counsel for Union of India to urge that it was intended to evade payment of duty by widening and expanding the ambit of entry.	ANALYSIS
In our opinion the item cannot be construed in the manner suggested.	ANALYSIS
The entry was widened but to the extent indicated above.	ANALYSIS
Any other construction would result in altering the principal clause.	ANALYSIS

 That would be contrary to the scheme of the entry and principle of construction.	ANALYSIS
Its only effect was to include even those manufactures in which mineral fibre or yarn or both predominate.	ANALYSIS
It could not be extended to those goods which were manufactured out of certain commodity in which mineral fibre or yarn had been predominantly used.	ANALYSIS
The word `other manufacture' has to be read in the same sense as `manufacture therefrom' used in the main part.	ANALYSIS
The only difference is that the scope has been widened to include not only those goods which were manufactured from mineral or yarn but even to those in which they predominate.	ANALYSIS
The construction as suggested by the learned counsel for Union of India shall not only change the nature of entry but it shall result in extending to manufactures at any stage.	ANALYSIS
In Geep Flaslight Industries v. Union of India,[1986]6 ELR 430, the entry or `articles of plastic' was construed to mean as article made wholly of commodity commonly known as plastic to avoid any artificial reading.	PRE_RELIED
The word `wholly' was read in the entry to render it workable.	ANALYSIS
Thus glass fabric manufactured out of mineral fibre is exigible to duty under item no. 4 but arc chamber housing manufactured from glass fabric cannot be placed at par with glass fabric and cannot be considered as `other manufacture' of glass fibre or yarn.	RATIO

 For reasons stated above this appeal succeeds and is allowed.	RPC
The orders of Tribunal, Collector and Assistant Collector are set aside.	RPC
The arc chamber housing manufactured out of glass fabric are held to be exigible to duty during the relevant period under item no 68.	RPC
The appellant shall be entitled to its costs.	RPC

 V.P.R.	RPC
                                    Appeal allowed.	RPC
