PETITIONER:
BANWAR LAL

Vs.

RESPONDENT:
STATE OF RAJASTHAN

DATE OF JUDGMENT27/09/1984

BENCH:
CHANDRACHUD, Y.V. ((CJ)
BENCH:
CHANDRACHUD, Y.V. ((CJ)
DESAI, D.A.
THAKKAR, M.P. (J)

CITATION:                1985 SCR (1) 859
 1985 AIR 336            1984 SCALE (2)787
 1984 SCC Supl. 538

ACT:
         	PREAMBLE
The Supreme Court (Enlargement of Criminal Appellate

Jurisdiction) Act 1970 Section Z (a)-Duty of Supreme Court-
Appreciation of evidence-Evidence of Independent witness
corroborated by his identifying the accused in an	PREAMBLE

identification parade and recovery of the blood stained
baniyan worn by the accused and the blood stained knife,
value.	PREAMBLE


HEADNOTE:
         The appellant along with Kanahiya Lal, Ram Niwas and

Badri Lal was charged under Section 302 read with Section 34
Indian Penal Code and tried for the offence of murder of one
Gyanchand by the Sessions Judge, Bhilwara, Rajasthan.	PREAMBLE
The
learned Judge convicted and sentenced Kanahiya Lal alone to
life imprisonment and acquitted the rest.	PREAMBLE
In appeal, the
High Court of Rajasthan, while confirming the conviction of
Kanahiya Lal as also the acquittal of two out of the three
persons, convicted and sentenced the appellant also to life
imprisonment.	PREAMBLE
Hence the appeal under the Supreme Court
Enlargement of Criminal Appellate Jurisdiction Act, 1970.	PREAMBLE


         Dismissing the appeal, the Court,
^

         HELD:	PREAMBLE
Since the High Court set aside an order of
acquittal and sentenced the appellant to life imprisonment
it is necessary for the Supreme Court to consider whether
two views of the evidence are reasonably possible and
whether, the High Court was justified in setting aside the
order of acquittal passed by the trial Court in favour of
the appellant.	PREAMBLE
Approaching the case and assessing the
evidence from that point of view, it is clear, that the
conviction of the appellant in view of the evidence of Bodu
Lal as corroborated by the discovery of the blood stained
baniyan and knife is unassailable.	PREAMBLE
He is an independent and
the most important witness in whose cycle rickshaw the
appellant and the co-accused Kanhiya Lal travelled from the
hotel of Shankar Maharaj to the scene of offence.	PREAMBLE
Bodu Lal
identified the appellant in the identification parade and
his evidence as to the colour of baniyan worn by the
appellant at the time of the incident tallied with that of
the one stained with human blood and recovered from the

accused.	PREAMBLE
A knife stained with human blood also recovered
from his person confirmed his guilt.	PREAMBLE
[860E-F, 861-B-C]	PREAMBLE

JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE

         CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION:	NONE
Criminal Appeal No.	NONE

 224 of 1974.	NONE
From the Judgment and Order Dated 8.1.73 of the Rajasthan High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 776 of 1970.	NONE

         Naunit Lal & Kailash Vasdev. for the appellant.	NONE

         B.D. Sharma for the respondent.	NONE
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD, C.J.	NONE
Four persons were tried by the learned Sessions Judge, Bhilwara, under section 302 read with section 34 of the Penal Code.	FAC
The learned Judge acquitted three out of the four accused and convicted only one of them, namely, Kanahiya Lal.	FAC
The High Court of Rajasthan confirmed the conviction of Kanahiya Lal, as also the acquittal of two out of the three persons who were acquitted by the Sessions Judge.	RLC
The High Court, however, set aside the acquittal of the appellant, convicted him under section 302 read with section 34 of the Penal Code and sentenced him to life imprisonment.
 	RLC
Since the High Court has set aside an order of acquittal and has sentenced the appellant to life imprisonment, it is necessary to consider whether two views of the evidence are reasonably possible and whether, the High Court was justified in setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the trial Court in favour of the appellant.	ISSUE
Having approached the case and assessed the evidence from that point of view, we are of the opinion that it is impossible to agree with the view taken by the trial court.	ANALYSIS
The High Court has specifically dealt with reasons given by the trial court in support of the order of acquittal and has demonstrated in a good measure as to why those reasons cannot be accepted.	ANALYSIS
We concur in the High Court's appreciation of evidence.	ANALYSIS
The incident out of which the prosecution arose happened at about 8 p.m. On September 29, 1968 at Bhilwara Rajasthan, leading to the death of one Gyanchand.	ANALYSIS
The motive for the offence is alleged to be that Gyanchand's brother, Nemi Chand, owed money to accused Nos. 3 and 4, Ram Niwas and Badri Lal.	ANALYSIS
Nemi Chand was evading to pay the debt which created bitterness between the two brothers on one hand and accused Nos. 3 and 4 on the other.	ANALYSIS
The latter, it is alleged, procured the help of the appellant and of Kanahiya Lal in doing Gyanchand to death.	ANALYSIS

         The prosecution examined a few witnesses in support of its case but it is unnecessary to refer to the evidence of each one of them.	ANALYSIS
The most important witness in the case is Bodu Lal (P.W. 2).	ANALYSIS
He is an independent witness, in whose cycle rickshaw the appellant and the co-accused Kanahiya Lal travelled from the hotel of Shankar Maharaj to the scene of offence.	ANALYSIS
Bodu Lal identified the appellant in the identification parade.	ANALYSIS
According to his evidence, the appellant was wearing a yellow baniyan at the time of the incident.	ANALYSIS
When the appellant was arrested.	ANALYSIS
a yellow baniyan was found on his person and it was stained with human blood.	ANALYSIS

A knife stained with human blood was also recovered from his person.	ANALYSIS

 The High Court has convicted the appellant relying on the evidence of Bodu Lal, as corroborated by the discovery of the blood stained baniyan and knife.	RATIO
This evidence seems to us unassailable.	RATIO
Accordingly, we dismiss this appeal and confirm the judgment of the High Court.	RPC

 S.R.	NONE
  Appeal dismissed.	RPC
