IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, SUNDARGARH.

Present :

                         Sri D.K. Mishra, LL.B.,
                         Additional Sessions Judge,
                         Sundargarh.

                         	PREAMBLE
Dated the 13th day of February, 2015.	PREAMBLE


                         S.T. Case No.164/47/30 of 2012-13	PREAMBLE
.
____	PREAMBLE
______	PREAMBLE
______	PREAMBLE
______	PREAMBLE
______	PREAMBLE
______	PREAMBLE
______	PREAMBLE
______	PREAMBLE
______	PREAMBLE
______	PREAMBLE
______	PREAMBLE
______
Arising out of G.R Case No. 10/2012 corresponding to Town P.S Sundargarh Case No.
01 of 2012 committed by the learned SDJM, Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE
State of Odisha .... .... .... ... Complainant.	PREAMBLE


                         -versus-	PREAMBLE


1. Sanjeeb Kumar Panigrahi, aged aboput 27 years,
       son of Pramod Chandra Panigrahi, resident
        of R.R.I.T Colony, P.S Town, District-Sundargarh ;

2. Sumitra Mishra, aged about 54 years,
       wife of Pramod Chandra Panigrahi,
       resident of R.R.I.T Colony, P.S Town,
       District-Sundargarh ;

3.	PREAMBLE
Pramod Chandra Panigrahi, aged about 53 years,
       son of late Somnath Panigrahi, resident of	PREAMBLE

       R.R.I.T colony, P.S Town, District-Sundargarh	PREAMBLE
.

                                  ....	PREAMBLE
.... ....	PREAMBLE
.... Accused persons.	PREAMBLE
Counsel for the prosecution : Sri Prasanta Kumar Patel,
                                    Addl.	PREAMBLE
Public Prosecutor.	PREAMBLE
Counsel for the defence : Sri D.K. Naik, Smt. N. Naik and others, Advocates.	PREAMBLE
Date of argument : 05.02.2015.

                         Date of judgment : 13.02.2015.	PREAMBLE
Offence under sections 498-A/304-B/302/306/34 of I.P.C read with
                                 section 4 of the D.P. Act.	PREAMBLE


                                  JUDGMENT.	PREAMBLE

                         The accused persons stand charged for the offences punishable under section 498-A/304-B/302/306/34 of I.P.C read with section 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act.
 2.  	FAC
The overview of the prosecution case is that Kabita Panigrahi the daughter of the informant was given in marriage with the accused Sanjeeb Panigrahi of R.R.I.T Colony, Sundargarh under Town P.S Sundargarh in the month of May, 2009.	FAC
Some days after the marriage, the said Kabita was subjected to cruelty by her in-laws with a view to putting additional pressure on her maternal family to cough up more money in spite of the fact that at the time of marriage they were given a sum of Rs.1,00,000/-, two tolas of gold and other utensils towards dowry as per their demand.	FAC

 The relationship, as time passed by, further worsened and it culminated in the husband of the said Kabita filing a divorce proceeding against the latter in connivance with his parents.	FAC
On 4.1.2012 at about 4.15 P.M the informant came to learn that her daughter Kabita was administered poison and killed by her in laws.	FAC
The informant then came to D.H.H , Sundargarh where her dead body was kept.	FAC
He reported the matter at Town P.S Sundargarh alleging therein the fact that her daughter had been murdered by her husband and her parents in law.	FAC
The same was registered as Town P.S case No. 1/2012 and investigation was carried on.	FAC
After completion of investigation, charge sheet was submitted against the accused persons u/s 498-A/304-B/306/34 of the I.P.C read with section 4 of the D.P. Act.	FAC

 In due course, the case was committed for trial and charge under sections 498-A/304-B/302/306/34 of I.P.C read with section 4 of D.P. Act were framed.	FAC

 3.  Defence sets up a plea of clean denial of facts alleged against the accused persons who while being examined u/s 313 of the Cr.P.C have taken the plea that the marriage between the deceased and Sanjeeb was a marriage free from dowry.	FAC

 The deceased did not at all take a liking to her husband and want to continue her marital relationship with him even if both of them stayed separately from the parents of accused Sanjeeb.	FAC
Therefore, accused Sanjeeb filed a divorce case against the deceased and since then she had been living with her parents at her native village.	FAC

 4.  Prosecution in order to prove its case has examined as many as thirteen witnesses in all and defence has examined none in its behalf.	FAC
5. Now the points for determination are that - a) Whether the accused persons since the year 2009 till 2.1 2012 at R.R.I.T Colony, Sundargarh in furtherance of common intention subjected deceased Kabita Panigrahi to cruelty for unlawful demand of dowry being her husband and parents ?
 b) Whether the death of Kabita Panigrahi occurred otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage on 4.12.2012 at D.H.H , Sundargarh being the outcome of the common intention of the accused persons to commit torture, cruelty and harassment to her on account of the demand of dowry ?
 c) Whether the accused persons on 4.1.2012 at Sundargarh in furtherance of their common intention did commit murder of Kabita Panigrahi by intentionally causing her death ?
 d) Whether on 2.1.2012 at the house at R.R.I.T colony, Sundargarh Kabita Panigrahi committed suicide and the accused persons being her husband and parents in law abetted its commission by torturing her both mentally and physically in furtherance of common intention ?
 e) Whether the accused persons being the husband and parents in law of Kabita Panigrahi had demanded dowry from her parents, before and after her marriage ?	ISSUE

 6.  The informant has been examined in this case as P.W 9.	ANALYSIS
P.W 10 is his son and a witness to inquest over the dead body of the deceased conducted by police.	ANALYSIS
P.W 12 is also a witness to inquest.	ANALYSIS
P.Ws 1 , 2 , 7 and 8 are independent witnesses.	ANALYSIS
P.Ws 3, 4 and 5 are witnesses to seizure.	ANALYSIS
P.W 6 is the medical officer who conducted inquest over the dead body of the deceased and P.W 13 is the I.O 7.	ANALYSIS
From the F.I.R marked as Ext.5, which it has been filed by none other than the father of the deceased it appears that he learnt about the death of the deceased on 4.1.2012.	ANALYSIS
The original bed head ticket issued in favour of Kabita Panigrahi wife of Sanjeeb Panigrahi of R.R.I.T Colony , Sundargarh marked as Ext.F from the side of the defence shows that she was admitted in the hospital on 3.1.2012 at 4.10 P.M.
 	ANALYSIS
This Kabita Panigrahi is the daughter of the informant.	ANALYSIS
The inquest report marked as Ext.6 from the side of the prosecution reveals that the inquest in respect of the dead body of the deceased was conducted on 5.1.2012.	ANALYSIS
The P.M examination report marked as Ext.3 does not reveal the cause of death.	ANALYSIS
The medical officer reserved his opinion and as it appears had sent the viscera which he had preserved for chemical examination.	ANALYSIS
Ext.13 is the report of the State Forensic Science Laboratory, Rasulgarh, Bhubaneswar regarding the viscera sent in this case.	ANALYSIS
It has been marked without any objection from the side of defence.	ANALYSIS
The result of the examination shows that an organophosphorus insecticidal poison was detected in the viscera of the deceased.	ANALYSIS

 These facts establish beyond doubt two things.	ANALYSIS
One, the deceased had met her death on 4.1.2012 at 4.30 P.M.	ANALYSIS
Secondly, her death was not under normal circumstance but due to intake of insecticidal poison.	ANALYSIS
8.  It is submitted by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor that the FIR reveals that the deceased who was given in marriage to Sanjeeb Panigrahi was being subjected to merciless treatment for dowry during her stay in her in-laws' house and the matter went to such a pass that her husband filed a divorce case against her even if several attempts were made to restore a normal and healthy marital relationship by the maternal family of the deceased.	ARG_PETITIONER
She was persecuted to bring dowry and when the poor parents of the deceased could not afford to meet the unlawful demands of the husband and his parents, a trap was laid and she was taken back by accused Sanjeeb to his house and on the fateful day she was administered poison and sent in a Bus where from she got down at hospital chowk, Sundargarh and taken to the hospital by some local people where she breathed her last.	ARG_PETITIONER
The informant while being examined as P.W 9 and his son as P.W 10 have materially corroborated that the accused persons were subjecting the deceased to cruelty all along and during the last part of her life when she was staying with them.	ARG_PETITIONER
It has been established by P.W 8 and P.W 1 that the deceased while being under the influence of poison was found near the hospital chowk , Sundargarh and was admitted in the D.H.H, Sundargarh on 3.1.2012.	ARG_PETITIONER
When such is the evidence , section 113-B of the Indian Evidence Act comes into play.	ARG_PETITIONER
The death of the deceased has taken place within seven years of her marriage.	ARG_PETITIONER
Hence it is to be presumed that the death of the deceased was due to dowry and that the accused persons being her in-laws are guilt not only of offence u/s 304-B of the I.P.C but also u/s 302/34 of the I.P.C.	ARG_PETITIONER
Similarly they are to be held guilty of offence u/s 498-A of the I.P.C and 4 of the D.P. Act.	ARG_PETITIONER
If in the alternative it is held that the deceased had taken poison herself to end her life, then , in view of the evidence available, it should be held that she had taken this extreme step to do away with such brutal torture by the accused persons which make them liable for punishment u/s 306/34 of the I.P.C.	ARG_PETITIONER

 9.  The learned defence counsel, taking potshot at the submission of the learned Additional P.P, submits that the argument advanced by the learned Addl.P.P is not based on facts but fiction.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is admitted that deceased Kabita was the legally married wife of accused Sanjeeb Panigrahi.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is also admitted that their marriage had taken place in the year 2009.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The fact remains that accused Sanjeeb Panigrahi filed a Civil Proceeding bearing No. 98/2010 before the Judge, Family Court, Rourkela about a year after the said marriage since his wife was not willing to stay with him and his family at Sundargarh and not taking care of their little daughter.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Since then the deceased had been living with her parents.	ARG_RESPONDENT
In the said Civil Proceeding filed u/s 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act, the deceased as a petitioner filed a Misc. case u/s 24 thereof claiming for her maintenance.	ARG_RESPONDENT
In the said petition, she has, by way of affidavit, disclosed the fact that she was staying with her maternal family.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The statement of P.W 9 that while the said divorce proceeding was going on, the accused gave an undertaking before the Family Court to keep the deceased as his wife without any trouble and with that undertaking he took the deceased with him and that when the occurrence had taken place she was staying with the accused persons is nothing but a blatant lie.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The evidence of P.W 10 who is the brother of the deceased has not only supported this lie of his father, but spiced it up by saying that the deceased four days prior to her death had telephoned him and intimated the fact that her husband was threatening her to kill if she did not bring money from her house.	ARG_RESPONDENT
All these false and vexatious claims of P.Ws 9 and 10 got a severe body blow when Ext.A which is the certified copy of the order sheet reveal that on the date of the occurrence, the said Sanjeeb was very much physically present before the Judge, Family Court and had adduced evidence therein where he has stated on oath that the deceased had left his house on 10.4.2010 leaving the child in his custody and there is no chance of their reunion as the attempts made and taken by him and his relatives, well wishers and friends had failed.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is true that the deceased was first located at the hospital chowk , Sundargarh by some local gentlemen and was admitted with the help of the police in the D.H.H, Sundargarh for her treatment but it is quite strange as to why her dying declaration was not recorded since she had not died on the date of her admission of her in to the hospital but on the next day .	ARG_RESPONDENT
Prosecution has failed to explain this and this doubt therefore remains unanswered.	ARG_RESPONDENT
If P.W 10 had received a phone call from the deceased four days prior to her death, why was no attempt made to rescue her from the family of her in-laws if she was then staying with them.	ARG_RESPONDENT
This question has also remained unanswered.	ARG_RESPONDENT
There has been no allegation by P.W 9 that accused Sanjeeb and his mother Sumitra Mishra had demanded any dowry.	ARG_RESPONDENT
There has been absolutely no allegation that the deceased was being tortured by her in-laws for dowry.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is the evidence of P.W 9 that accused Pramod was asking him for a financial help of Rs.50,000/-.	ARG_RESPONDENT
In that view of the matter , the accused persons cannot be held liable either u/s 498-A of the I.P.C or 4 of the D.P.
Act.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Since the deceased was not at all staying with the accused persons since 2010, in view of the settled law, they cannot be held to have subjected her to cruelty on account of dowry soon before her death and be liable u/s 304-B of the I.P.C.	ARG_RESPONDENT
There is no evidence that the accused persons administered poison to the deceased.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Hence the question of their having committed an offence u/s 300 of the I.P.C does not arise at all and they cannot be held guilty of the offence u/s 302 of the I.P.C.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The deceased had no doubt taken poison to end her life and committed suicide.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Since she was staying separately from the accused persons, her death cannot be attributed to the act of the accused persons.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Hence they cannot be held guilty of offence u/s 306 of the I.P.C.	ARG_RESPONDENT
In support of his submission the learned defence counsel relies on the following decisions reported in (1994)7 OCR-91 in the case of Babaji Charan Barik vs. State, (2007) 36 OCR (SC)-398 in the case of Appasaheb & Another vs. State of Maharastra, AIR 2012 Supreme Court 2297 in the case of Rohtash v. State of Hariyana, (2001) 21 OCR (SC)  621 in the case of Sunil Bajaj vs. State of M.P, 1997 (II) OLR-565 in the case of Nilamani Nath and others vs. State of Orissa , (2014) 58 OCR (SC)- 933 in the case of Manohar Lal vs. State of Haryana, (2015) 60 OCR-188 in the case of Sanjib Sahu and others vs. State of Orissa, (2013) 56 OCR (SC)-349 in the case of S. Anil Kumar @ Anil Kumar Ganna vs. State of Karnataka, 1999 (II) OLR (SC)-341 in the case of Sakhi Mandalani vs. State of Bihar and others and (2013) 56 OCR (SC)  205 in the case of Jasvinder Saini & Others vs. State ( Govt.of NCT of Delhi).	ARG_RESPONDENT

 The points raised during argument propel me to cogitate over the matter which in my view requires deeper scrutiny.	ANALYSIS

 10.  From the evidence of P.W 9 it appears that he resides at village Juradanga P.S Kundheigola, Dist Deogarh.	ANALYSIS
The deceased was his daughter.	ANALYSIS
It is claimed by the defence that the deceased was all along staying with P.W 9 in his house since the divorce application was filed by her husband in the year 2010.	ANALYSIS
The facts remains , as could be seen from the evidence of P.W 1 and P.W 8 that the deceased was located at their shop at hospital road, Sundargarh and with the help of the police she was admitted at D.H.H Sundargarh for her treatment.	ANALYSIS
Documentary evidence such as Ext.5, ( the F.I.R), Ext.9 (dead body challan), Ext.6 (the inquest report) and the Ext.3 ( the P.M examination report) establish the fact that the deceased had died at Sundargarh.	ANALYSIS
The house of the accused persons situates at R.R.I.T Colony, Sundargarh.	ANALYSIS

 It is therefore to be seen whether soon before her death the deceased was staying with the accused persons as has been claimed by P.Ws 9 and 10 or with them.	ANALYSIS

 11.  P.Ws 9 and 10 have consistently said in their evidence that some days before her death accused Sanjeeb Panigrahi prevailed over the deceased and took her with him to his house and during the last days of her life she was staying with the accused persons.	ANALYSIS
P.W 7 claims himself to be a neighbour of the accused persons.	ANALYSIS
In his cross -examination he has stated that he was the immediate neighbour of the accused persons at R.R.I.T Colony.	ANALYSIS
According to him, some days after the marriage between Sanjeeb and Kabita the latter went away to her parents ' house for which there was a case in the Family Court between him and his wife.	ANALYSIS
P.W 9 has stated in his evidence that in the year 2011 accused Sanjeeb had left his daughter in his house for about seven months and then took her back with him.	ANALYSIS
During that period the accused filed a divorce case in the Family Court, Rourkela.	ANALYSIS
There he undertook before the Family Court to keep his daughter as his wife and then came to his house on 24.12.2011 and took her to his house.	ANALYSIS
His son P.W 10 has stated that about a year after the birth of a girl child, his sister due to dissension had to live in their house and about seven months thereafter she was taken by accused Sanjeeb to his house.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of P.W 9 to the effect that the accused under took before the Family Court that he would keep the deceased as his wife and on 24.12.2011 took her to his house is not substantiated by any documentary evidence.	ANALYSIS
Had there been any such undertaking before the Judge, Family Court, Rourkela, prosecution should have filed the same.	ANALYSIS
It had not done so.	ANALYSIS
On the contrary, what is found from the evidence of P.W 7 indicated as above and the contents of Ext.A (order sheet in C.P 98/2010) Ext.C (deposition of accused Sanjeeb Panigrahi in C.P 98/2010) and Ext.D (Misc. case 40/2010 arising out of C.P 98/2010 filed by the deceased u/s 24 of the Hindu Marriage Act )is that accused Sanjeeb Panigrahi had filed the aforesaid divorce proceeding against the deceased on on the ground, inter alia, that she was not staying with him and that she had claimed vide the aforesaid Misc. case interim maintenance from him on the ground that she was staying with her parents.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, the evidence of P.W 9 to the effect that in the year 2011 accused Sanjeeb filed a divorce proceeding and that during such proceeding he had given an undertaking before the Court to keep the deceased with him does not appear to be believable.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of P.W 10 in this regard, for the self same reason, does not appear to be believable and credit worthy.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of P.W 10 in this regard is further viewed with suspicion since though he has claimed that four days prior to her death the deceased had made a telephone call to him and narrated about the fact that her life was in danger , he did not make any attempt to rescue her from her in-laws' house.	ANALYSIS
He has also not made any attempt to report about this development to the police or to the Judge, Family Court, Rourkela.	ANALYSIS
His not making any attempt to save the life of his own sister which was in danger persuades me to entertain doubt in my mind as to the stay of the deceased in the house of the accused persons during her last days.	ANALYSIS
P.W 1 and P.W 8 have stated that soon after they found the deceased at their shop, they informed police which got her admitted in the hospital.	ANALYSIS

She was treated there, as it appears from Ext.F, for a whole day.	ANALYSIS
But, unfortunately her dying declaration has not been recorded either by police or the treating physician.	ANALYSIS

Prosecution being devoid of such a document has no doubt been hit hard.	ANALYSIS
I am therefore of the considered view that prosecution has not been able to establish beyond reasonable doubt that on 3.1.2012 and some time prior thereto she was staying in the house of the accused persons at R.R.I.T Colony, Sundargarh.	ANALYSIS
When this fact is not established, the allegation made in the FIR by P.W 9 that his daughter was administered poison by the accused persons loses it's significance.	ANALYSIS
Hence a case u/s 302/34 of the I.P.C is not made out against them.	ANALYSIS
As it is not proved that the accused persons had not administered poison to the deceased, the inescapable conclusion about the cause of death of the deceased is that she had taken insecticidal poison and committed suicide. Ext.13 which is the report of the S.F.S.L., Rasulgarh materially corroborates this fact.	ANALYSIS

 12.  Now the next question that falls for determination is what did the deceased take the poison for.	ANALYSIS
The case of prosecution is that she was , through-out her marriage, persecuted to meet the unlawful demand of dowry and subjected to torture and harassment for that end.	ANALYSIS
It is the evidence of P.W 9 that her husband wanted her to bring a sum of Rs.50,000/- from her maternal family for the purpose of business.	ANALYSIS
The FIR reveals that accused Pramod Panigrahi and accused Sumitra Mishra who were the parents in law of the deceased were hands in glove with accused Sanjeeb in persecuting her.	ANALYSIS
The deceased, the learned Addl.P.P submits, must have wanted an end to it and taken poison.	ANALYSIS
Since the death of the deceased had taken place which was not under normal circumstance, the court with the help of section 113-B of the Indian Evidence Act shall presume that it was the accused persons who brought about her death which can be termed as dowry death u/s 304-B of the I.P.C.
 13.	ANALYSIS
Section 304-B of the I.P.C reads as under : "304 B. Dowry death-(1) Where the death of a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage and it is shown that soon before her death she was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry, such death shall be called " dowry death", and such husband or relative shall be deemed to have caused her death."	STA

 It has been held in the decision reported in (1994) 7 OCR- at page -91 in the case of Babaji Charan Barick vs. State that a combined reading of section 113-B of the Indian Evidence Act and section 304-B of the I.P.C shows that there must be material to show that soon before her death the victim must have subjected to cruelty or harassment.	PRE_RELIED

The expression "soon before " is very relevant.	ANALYSIS
The prosecution is obliged to show that soon before the occurrence there was cruelty or harassment and only in that case the prosecution operates.	PRE_RELIED
This view find vindication in the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court reported in 2014 -58 OCR (SC) 933 in the case of Manoharlal vs. State of Haryana and (2001) 21 OCR (S.C)-621 in the case of Sunil Bajaj vs. State of M.P.
 14.	PRE_RELIED
 As already discussed, prosecution has not been able to establish beyond doubt that the deceased was staying in the house of the accused persons during the last days of her life.	ANALYSIS
From the documents filed from the side of defence such as Ext.C and Ext.D, it appears that she was staying with her parents after the institution of the divorce proceeding by her husband Sanjeeb Panigrahi.	ANALYSIS
As already discussed, the evidence of P.W 9 and P.W 10 regarding the stay of the deceased in the house of the accused persons towards the last part of her life during pendency of the divorce proceeding has not been believed because of the infirmity therein as indicated above.	ANALYSIS
In his evidence , P.W 9 has not at all implicated accused Pramod Panigrahi and his wife Sumitra Mishra in subjecting the deceased to cruelty on account of demand of dowry.	ANALYSIS
He has virtually given them a clean chit .	ANALYSIS
He has only stated that his son in law accused Sanjeeb had sought for a financial help of Rs.50,000/- which according to him would enable him to purchase a ten wheeler truck for the purpose of his business and when he refused , he got miffed, went away and about ten days after left his daughter at Budhapal chowk where from he had brought her to his home.	ANALYSIS
His evidence to this effect which according to him had taken place prior to the filing of the divorce proceeding cannot be termed as demand of dowry.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of P.W 10 is not at all indicative of the fact that accused Pramod Panigrahi and his wife Sumitra Mishra were subjecting the deceased to cruelty on account of dowry.	ANALYSIS
On the contrary, it is his evidence that three months after the marriage of his sister (deceased ), dissension had arisen between her and accused Sanjeeb relating to further demand of money.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of P.W 11 is of hearsay nature as has been admitted by him during cross-examination.	ANALYSIS
No other evidence is available in the record imputing the conduct of accused Pramod Panigrahi and his wife Sumitra Mishra in torturing the deceased during the marriage.	ANALYSIS
More over , there is nothing in the record to show that soon before her death, they were torturing her with a view to forcing her to bring dowry.	ANALYSIS
In that view of the matter and in view of the settled law, I am not persuaded to hold that in this case this court can import section 113-B of the Indian Evidence Act to hold that the accused Sumitra Mishra and Pramod Panigrahi who were the parents in law of the deceased subjected her to cruelty and harassment in connection with any demand for dowry soon before her death and are thus liable for punishment u/s 304-B/34 of the I.P.C.
 15.      	ANALYSIS
In so far as the involvement of accused Sanjeeb Panigrahi for the offence u/s 304-B of the I.P.C is concerned , I find from Ext.A, that he had filed a divorce proceeding in C.P 98/2010 against the deceased on 24.4.2014.	ANALYSIS
In his evidence before the Judge, Family Court he has deposed, as could been seen from Ext.C that the deceased had left his house on 10.4.2010 leaving the child in his custody.	ANALYSIS
From Ext D, I find that by swearing an affidavit , the deceased had filed a Misc. case where she has stated that she was residing at Juradanga in the District of Deogarh , Odisha with her parents.	ANALYSIS
His seeking for financial assistance from his father in law as stated by P.W 9 cannot be termed as demand of dowry.	ANALYSIS
So, it cannot be held that soon before her death which was not under normal circumstance, he was subjecting her to cruelty or harassment for or in connection with any demand of dowry.	ANALYSIS
Hence he cannot also be held guilty u/s 304-B of the I.P.C with the help of section 113-B of the Indian Evidence Act in view of the facts and circumstance of the case.	ANALYSIS

 16.      The accused persons may not have committed the offence u/s 304- B/34 of the I.P.C , but had they abetted in any manner the commission of suicide of the deceased ?	ANALYSIS
Let us examine this point.	ANALYSIS

 17.      Section 107 of the I.P.C defines abetment of a thing.	STA
According to it : "A person abets the doing of a thing who- First-Instigates any person to do that thing ; or Secondly- Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in order to the doing of that thing; or Thirdly-Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing."
 	STA
It is established through the evidence that the deceased on 3.1.2012 had consumed insecticidal poison and her death was due to such consumption.	ANALYSIS
The date of her taking poison coincides with the date when her husband had deposed in C.P 98/2010 before the Judge, Family Court, Rourkela.	ANALYSIS
There is no material in the record to prove that there is more to the said coincidence than meets the eye.	ANALYSIS
Prosecution has failed to prove, for the reasons indicated as above, that she wa, during the last days of her life staying with the accused persons.	ANALYSIS
No cogent evidence is there in the record to suggest that due to torment on her by the accused persons she had decided to end her life.	ANALYSIS
It is therefore difficult to believe that the accused persons in furtherance of their common intention either instigated her or connived with each other or intentionally aided by any act or omission to prod her to take this extreme step.	ANALYSIS
Hence a case u/s 306/34 of the I.P.C appears not to be made out against the accused persons.	ANALYSIS

 18.  From the documents marked as Ext.C from the side of defence , it appears that the deceased had stayed with the accused persons in their house at R.R.I.T Colony for some days and there after shifted to another residence to live with accused Sanjeeb Panigrahi until 10.4.2010.	ANALYSIS
In the F.I.R it is alleged that the deceased was being subjected to cruelty by the accused persons on account of inadequate dowry during her marriage.	ANALYSIS
P.W 9 and P.W 10 have not whispered even a word about the involvement of the accused Pramod Panigrahi and Sumitra Mishra in causing such cruelty to her at any point of time.	ANALYSIS
Both P.Ws 9 and 10 have only alleged that at the time of marriage a sum of Rs.1,00,000/- and some other articles were given.	ANALYSIS
Their statements to this effect are not sufficient to prove that accused Pramod and Sumitra had played any active or passive role in persecuting the deceased on account of inadequacy of dowry.	ANALYSIS
Of course both P.Ws 9 and 10, as has been stated earlier, have alleged that after the marriage dissension between accused Sanjeeb and the deceased arose and according to P.W 1, it was on account of dowry.	ANALYSIS
However, the allegation against accused Sanjeeb to the effect that he asked P.W 9 for financial help of Rs.50,000/- and on refusal he got miffed, is viewed with suspicion in as much as P.W 13 who is the I.O in this case has stated in her cross-examination at para 15 and para 16 that these two witnesses have not made any such allegation before her during their examination u/s 161 of the Cr.P.C.	ANALYSIS
In that view of the matter , I feel that prosecution has not been able to produce enough material to prove that the accused persons have, in furtherance of their common intention, committed the offence u/s 498-A/34 of the I.P.C against the deceased during her stay with them.	ANALYSIS

 19.  In his evidence P.W 9 has categorically alleged that accused Pramod Panigrahi had demanded a sum of Rs.one lakh as dowry before the marriage of his son with the deceased and he had paid the same to him in two equal installments.	ANALYSIS

 P.W 10 has also stated to the effect that for the purpose of marriage of his sister with accused Sanjeeb, his father had given dowry of Rs.1,00,000/- and other articles.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of P.W 10 to this effect has remained unassailed during cross-examination.	ANALYSIS

 Similarly, the evidence of P.W 9 that before the marriage the accused Pramod Panigrahi who is the father of accused Sanjeeb had demanded a sum of Rs.1.00,000/- as dowry has not been repudiated during his cross-examination.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand the FIR (Ext.5) corroborates the fact that a sum of Rs.1.00,000/- was given as dowry during the marriage of the deceased with the accused Sanjeeb.	ANALYSIS
Section 2 of the Dowry Prohibition Act defines dowry as under : "Sec.2 Definition of "dowry"-	STA
In this Act "dowry" means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly - (a) by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage ; or (a) by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other person, to either party to the marriage or to any other person ; at or before [or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties, but does not include] dower or mahr in the case of persons to whom the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) applies.	STA

 Section 4 of D.P. Act reads as under - [Sec. 4 .Penalty for demanding dowry-	STA
If any person demands, directly or indirectly, from the parents or other relatives or guardian of a bride or bridegroom, as the case may be, any dowry, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months, but which may extend to two years and with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees.	STA
Provided that the court may, for adequate and special reasons to be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of imprisonment for a term of less than six months.]	STA
20.  The learned counsel for the accused persons submits that like a drowning man who catches at a straw, prosecution is trying hard when no other ploy does appear to succeed, to keep itself floating with the help of the evidence in this regard which should fail on account of the fact that there has been undue delay in bringing this matter to the fore and bringing the guilty to the book.	ANALYSIS
Besides, P.W 13 (I.O) has stated that P.W 9 has not stated before him that he gave the said amount in two equal installments.	ANALYSIS
The argument of the learned defence counsel in this regard does not appear to me to be convincing.	ANALYSIS
It is but natural that parents with their anxiety to find a suitable groom for their nubile daughters meekly accede to such demands of the groom, or his parents or his relatives knowing fully well that both the act of giving and taking of dowry is punishable in the eye of law.	ANALYSIS
The parents of the bride in order to see that the marriage remains peaceful and blissful keep many things under the wraps.	ANALYSIS
Viewed from that angle, the reporting of the matter as regards the demand of dowry by accused Pramod Panigrahi at the time of his son's marriage with the deceased cannot be said to be over delayed.	ANALYSIS
Here in this case, the poor father had, after his daughter's death, shed the stoney silence and all inhibitions to speak his mind about the demand and acceptance of dowry by accused Pramod.	ANALYSIS
His evidence which is supported by his son's as well as the contents of the FIR appears to me to be convincing in as much as though he had the occasion to impute the said allegation against accused Sanjeeb and his mother, he had not done so.	ANALYSIS
He has through his evidence proved that it was only accused Pramod who had demanded at the time of marriage a sum of Rs.1,00,000/- and the contents of the FIR and the statement of P.W 10 prove the fact that it was paid.	ANALYSIS
His not having stated before the I.O that he paid the said amount in two equal installments is not a material omission and therefore ignored.	ANALYSIS
I am therefore of the considered view that the said sum of Rs.1,00,000/- which was given to accused Pramod Panigrahi by the father of the deceased was dowry and that by receiving the same he had committed the offence u/s 4 of the D.P.Act.
 21.	RATIO
 On mature reflection of the evidence on record which finds place in the discussion made as above, I am of the considered view that prosecution has not been able to prove its case u/s 302/304-B/306/498-A/34 of the I.P.C against all the accused persons beyond all reasonable doubt .	RATIO
Hence they are held not guilty there under and acquitted therefrom u/s 235(1) of the Cr.P.C.	RATIO
Similarly, prosecution has also failed to establish a case u/s 4 of the D.P. Act against accused Sumitra Mishra and accused Sanjeeb Panigrahi beyond all reasonable doubt.	RATIO
They are held not guilty there under and acquitted therefrom u/s 235(1) of the Cr.P.C and set at liberty.	RATIO
However, for the reasons indicated as above I hold accused Pramod Panigrahi guilty of the offence u/s 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act and convict him thereunder.	RPC

 22.  As I do not find any extenuating circumstance, I do not intend to release the convict under the Probation of Offenders Act.	RPC
Judgment is pronounced in the open court this 13th day of February, 2015 given under my hand and seal of the court.	NONE

 Additional Sessions Judge, Sundargarh.	NONE
Dictated and corrected by me.	NONE

 Additional Sessions Judge, Sundargarh.	NONE
Hearing on the question of sentence.	NONE

 23.  Heard the convict, his learned counsel and the learned Additional Public Prosecutor on the question of sentence at great length.	NONE
The convict pleaded for mercy.	NONE
The learned Additional Public Prosecutor submits on the other hand that the convict deserves no clemency.	NONE
Having heard them in the matter and taking into consideration the fact that the convict is aged about 53 years having no criminal antecedent, I am of the humble view that a sentence comprising R.I of one year and a fine of Rs.5,000/- if imposed on the convict would meet the ends of justice.	RATIO

Accordingly, I sentence the convict to undergo R.I for one year and to pay a fine of Rs.5,000/- i.d to undergo R.I for three months.	RPC
The U.T.P period be set off as per rule.	RPC
The zimanama be cancelled and the seized articles be retained by the zimadar.	RPC
The other seized articles be destroyed.	RPC
This order shall take effect after expiry of four months of appeal period if no appeal is preferred and subject to the order of the appellant court if appeal is preferred.	RPC

 Judgment is pronounced in the open court this 13th day of February, 2015 given under my hand and seal of the court.	NONE

 Additional Sessions Judge, Sundargarh.
 	NONE
Dictated and corrected by me.	NONE

 Additional Sessions Judge, Sundargarh.	NONE
List of witnesses examined on behalf of the prosecution.	NONE

 P.W 1 Firoz Khan.	NONE

 P.W 2 Binod Sharma.	NONE

 P.W 3 Ananda Laria.	NONE

 P.W 4 Surendra Kumar Das.	NONE

 P.W 5 Ghanashyam Mahanandia.	NONE

 P.W 6 Dr. Manoj Kumar Panigrahi.	NONE

 P.W 7 Hemanta Kumar Thakur.	NONE

 P.W 8 Raju Khan.	NONE

 P.W 9 Iswar Chandra Satpathy.	NONE

 P.W10Babula Satpathy.	NONE

 P.W 11Kusadhwaja Satpathy.	NONE

 P.W 13 Sujata Panda.	NONE
List of witness examined on behalf of the defence.	NONE
Nil List of documents marked Ext on behalf of the prosecution.
 Ext.1     Seizure list.
Ext.1/1   Signature of P.W 3 on Ext.1.
Ext.2     Seizure list.
Ext.2/1   Signature of P.W 4 on Ext.2.
Ext.2/2   Signature of P.W 5 on Ext.2.
Ext.3     P.M Report.
Ext.3/1   Signature of P.W 6 on Ext.3.
Ext.3/2   Signature of Dr. Golekha Behera on Ext.3.
Ext.4     Query report.
Ext.4/1   Signature of P.W 6 on Ext.4.
Ext.5     F.I.R.
Ext.5/1   Signature of P.W 9 on Ext.5.
Ext.6     	NONE
Inquest report.	NONE
Ext.6/1   Signature of P.W 9 on Ext.6.
Ext.6/2   Signature of P.W 10 on Ext.6.
Ext.7     Zimanama.
Ext.7/1   Signature of P.W 10 on Ext.7.
Ext.6/3   Signature of P.W 12 on Ext.6.
Ext.5/2   Endorsement of P.W 13 on Ext.5.
Ext.8     Formal F.I.R.
Ext.8/1   Signature of P.W 13 on Ext.8.
Ext.6/4   Signature of P.W 13 on Ext.6.
Ext.9     Requisition for P.M examination.
Ext.9/1   Signature of P.W 13 on Ext.9.
Ext.10    Spot map.
Ext.10/1  Signature of P.W 13 on Ext.10.
Ext.2/3   Signature of P.W 13 on Ext.2.
Ext.11    Seizure list.
Ext.11/1  Signature of P.W 13 on Ext.11.
Ext.1/2   Signature of P.W 13 on Ext.1.
Ext.12    Seizure list.
Ext.12/1  Signature of P.W 13 on Ext.12.
Ext.7/2   Signature of P.W 13 on Ext.7.
Ext.13    Chemical examination report.
 List of document marked Ext. on behalf of the defence.
 Ext.A     	NONE
Certified copy of order sheet in C.P No.98/10 and Misc.
          case No. 40/10 of the court of Judge, Family Court from date 24.4.10 to 24.1.12.	NONE
Ext.B     The petition dated 24.4.10 filed by the petitioner S. Panigrahi in C.P No.98/10 (certified copy ).
 	NONE
Ext.C     Certified copy of deposition of petitioner No.1 S. Panigrahi in C.P.
          No.98/10.	NONE
Ext.D  	NONE
Certified copy of petition in Misc. case No. 40/10.
 Ext.E  	NONE
Certified copy of show cause filed by O.P S. Panigrahi in Misc. case No. 40/12 arising out of C.P No. 98/10.
 Ext.F  Bed head ticket of deceased Kabita Panigrahi dated 3.1. 12 vid indoor registration No.20259 dated 3.1.12.
 List of M.O marked on behalf of the prosecution.
 	NONE
Nil List of M.O marked on behalf of the defence.	NONE

 Nil Additional Sessions Judge, Sundargarh	NONE
