IN THE COURT OF THE SENIOR CIVIL JUDGE & JMFC
                        AT T.NARASIPURA.

        	PREAMBLE
DATED THIS THE 29TH DAY OF FEBRUARY 2012	PREAMBLE
PRESENT: Sri. M.G.Kudavakkaliger, B.Com., L.L.M.,
                    	PREAMBLE
Senior Civil Judge & JMFC T. Narasipura.	PREAMBLE
O.S NO.17/2008	PREAMBLE


Plaintiff  :  1. Subbappa S/o Mahanthappa, Aged about
                     70 years, R/o Hosahalli village, Muguru
Defendant :          Hobli, T.Narasipura Taluk.
                                                       	PREAMBLE
(By Adv. Sri.S.J.)	PREAMBLE


              Vs.
              1. Maramma D/o	PREAMBLE
Late Madappa, Major	PREAMBLE
.

              2. Parashivamurthy S/o	PREAMBLE
Late Madappa,	PREAMBLE

                     Major.	PREAMBLE


                     Both are R/o Hosahalli village, Muguru
                     Hobli, T.Narasipura Taluk.	PREAMBLE


                                             (By Adv. Learned K.B.B.)

Date of institution of the suit  03.12.2008.	PREAMBLE
Nature of the suit               	PREAMBLE
For partition and separate possession

Date of the commencement of 22.06.2010.
recording evidence

Date on which the Judgement      29.02.2012.
was pronounced.
                                 Year	PREAMBLE
/s  Month/s  day/s	PREAMBLE

Total Duration                    03	PREAMBLE
      02	PREAMBLE
    26	PREAMBLE


              Senior Civil Judge & JMFC T. Narasipura.	PREAMBLE
JUDGMENT
 	PREAMBLE
The plaintiff has filed this suit for partition and separate possession of  share in the suit schedule properties with metes and bounds and cost.	FAC

 2. Following are the brief and relevant facts leading to the case of the plaintiff; That one Mahanthappa is the father of the plaintiff and one Madappa is his elder brother.	FAC
The suit schedule properties are ancestral properties of the plaintiff and his elder brother Madappa and their father by name Mahanthappa.	FAC
All of them were the members of undivided Hindu family.	FAC
The plaintiff has vested right by birth in the suit schedule properties.	FAC
After the death of his father about years the plaintiff inherited right of his late father in the suit schedule properties.	FAC

As such the plaintiff became owner of half share in the suit schedule properties likewise Madappa who is father of defendants became owner of half right in the suit schedule properties and both of them continued to be the joint owners in possession of the suit schedule properties.	FAC
Madappa who is 1st son of late Mahanthappa has passed away about 10 years ago, these defendants are the only legal heirs of him.	FAC
Since Madappa became kartha of undivided Hindu family katha of all the properties held in the name of Madappa.	FAC
After his death the plaintiff and the defendants became joint owners in possession of the properties.	FAC
The defendant No.2 without the knowledge of the plaintiff has got held katha of the suit schedule properties in his name, as if all his properties are his exclusive properties.	FAC
On the basis of the illegal katha, the defendant No.2 attempted to alienate the suit schedule properties in favour of others.	FAC
But after the issue of legal notice dt:08.09.2008, the intending purchasers declined to purchase the same.	FAC
The plaintiff after came to know about the illegal katha held in the name of the defendant No.2 about month ago demanded the defendants to make partition of the suit schedule properties and to deliver the possession of half share in the suit schedule properties to the plaintiff.	FAC
But the defendants have given untenable reply, hence, the notice was issued by the plaintiff, the defendant No.2 has given untenable reply.	FAC
Hence, the cause of action arouse about a month ago.	FAC
Hence, plaintiff prayed to decree the suit in favour of the plaintiff, for partition and separate possession of the suit schedule properties.	FAC

Hence prayed to decree the suit in favour of the plaintiff against the defendants.	FAC
3. After institution of the suit, as contemplated under law, suit summons came to be issued to the defendants.	FAC
Pursuant to the suit summons Defendants No. 1 & 2 have appeared through their counsel learned K.B.B.	FAC
Defendant No.1 filed her written statement, defendant No.2 filing memo adopted the same.	FAC

 4. The defendants No.1 & 2 have denied the averments made in para 1 of the plaint with regard to the facts that plaintiff's elder brother Madappa and their father by name Mahanthappa were the members of the undivided Hindu family as false and called the plaintiff for strict proof of the same.	ARG_RESPONDENT
These defendants contended that the genealogical tree dt:06.08.2008 is false and created for the purpose of this suit by the plaintiff.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 5. These defendants denied that the plaintiff had vested right in the suit schedule properties and contended that the plaintiff has inherited nothing in the suit schedule properties, all his claims are also totally barred by law of limitation since Mahanthappa died more than 30 years ago and since the time of death of late Mahanthappa, Madappa was in exclusive possession and enjoyment of the suit schedule properties having mutation katha changed to his name to the knowledge of the plaintiff who was and is living in his adoptive parents house.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The plaintiff was given in adoption to one Smt.Girijamma who was childless through a registered adoption deed dt:29.06.1956 and late Madappa who died in the year 2002 was in exclusive possession and enjoyment of the suit schedule properties unquestioned by the plaintiff till his death.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 6. These defendants have denied the averments made in para 2 and 3 of the plaint as false and baseless and called the plaintiff for strict proof of the same.	ARG_RESPONDENT
These defendants have contended that the plaintiff has or had no right of any kind to question the change of mutation katha of the suit schedule properties which are absolutely belonged to late Madappa and the 2nd defendant and the mutation katha of the schedule properties were changed to the name of the 2nd defendant in the year 2002 itself as per INH No.3/2002-03 dt:09.05.2003 which the plaintiff is aware of from the date of change of mutation.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Hence, the allegation of the plaintiff that the defendant No.2 attempted to alienate the properties is totally wrong and the same is pleaded and averred for the purpose of this suit.	ARG_RESPONDENT
7. These defendants further contended that the averments made by the plaintiff that he came to know the illegal katha held in the name of 2nd defendant is total falsehood and concocted for the purpose of filing of this suit.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The plaintiff never asked or demanded for any partition, as he had or has no right to demand for partition.	ARG_RESPONDENT

Hence, for the legal notice dt:08.09.2008 issued by the plaintiff, these defendants have replied properly.	FAC
The plaintiff has no cause of action to file this suit and the suit is only imaginary.	FAC
The plaintiff has not right of any manner to seek or demand partition of the suit schedule properties as they exclusively belonged to the defendants only.	FAC
The description of the suit schedule properties are not fully correct and hence, the properties mentioned in the schedule are not correct.	FAC
The plaintiff has not properly valued the schedule properties and the value given is wrong and incorrect.	FAC
These defendants denied the all other allegations which are not specifically dealt within the written statement as false and untenable.	FAC
Hence, prayed to dismiss the suit with cost.	FAC

 8. On the basis of the rival contentions taken up by the respective parties following are the issues that would arise for my consideration: 1.	ISSUE
Whether the plaintiff proves that he is the member of the joint Hindu family consisting of plaintiff and defendants and all the suit schedule properties are the joint Hindu family amenable for partition?	ISSUE

 2. Whether plaintiff proves that genealogical dt:06.08.2008 is genuine, true and correct?	ISSUE

 3. Whether defendants prove that suit is barred by law of limitation?	ISSUE

 4. Whether defendants prove the plaintiff was given in adoption to one Smt.Girijamma through registered adopted deed dt:21.06.1956?	ISSUE
5. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for separate and possession of the suit schedule properties with metes and bounds as prayed for?	ISSUE

 6. What order or decree?	ISSUE
9. In order to substantiate the case made out by the plaintiff, the plaintiff Subbappa entered into witness box filed his affidavit evidence and got examined himself as PW1 and got marked as many as 9 documents as per Exs.P1 to P9 and closed her side.	ANALYSIS
Defendant No.1 entered into witness box and filed her affidavit evidence and got examined herself as DW1 and got marked as many as 12 documents as per Ex.PD1 to 12 and closed their side.	ANALYSIS
Case posted for arguments.	NONE

 10. Heard the arguments on both sides and perused the materials placed on record.	NONE

 11. On the basis of the materials placed on record, I record my findings to the above issues are as under; 1.	ANALYSIS
Issue No.1: In the negative.	ANALYSIS

                2. Issue No.2: In the negative.	ANALYSIS

                3. Issue No.3: In the affirmative.	ANALYSIS
4. Issue No.4: In the affirmative	ANALYSIS
5. Issue No. 5: In the negative.	ANALYSIS
6. Issue No. 6: As per final order for the following; R E A S O N S 12.	ANALYSIS
Issues No.1, 2 & 4:- As issues Nos.1, 2 & 4	ANALYSIS
are inter- linked, the discussion of one issue has its direct bearing on the discussion of another issue, in order to avoid repetition of discussion of evidence and for the purpose of brevity and convenience, I would like to discuss these issues jointly.	ANALYSIS

 13. On the basis of the rival contentions these issues No.1 & 2 have been framed placing the burden on the plaintiff to prove that plaintiff and defendants constitute a joint Hindu family and genuiness of the genealogical tree dt:06.08.2008 and all the suit schedule properties were the joint family properties amenable for partition.	ANALYSIS

This contention has been denied by the defendants as utter false and contended that plaintiff has been given in adoption to one Smt.Girijamma through registered adoption deed dt:29.06.1956.	ARG_RESPONDENT

Since from the date of the adoption, the plaintiff lived along with the adoptive parents, hence, the relationship of the plaintiff with the joint family members defendants and other members of the joint family has been severed.	ANALYSIS
Hence, the plaintiff is no more member of the joint family, he cannot claim any partition in the joint family property.	ANALYSIS

Hence, issue No.4 has been framed placing the burden on the defendants to prove the alleged adoption of the plaintiff to one Smt.Girijamma, through a registered adoption deed dt:29.06.1956.	ANALYSIS

(The said Girijamma is none else than the sister of the Mahanthappa).	ANALYSIS

 14. In order to substantiate the case made out by the plaintiff, the plaintiff has filed his affidavit reiterating the plaint averments and got marked as many as 9 documents as per Ex.P1 to P9.	ANALYSIS
During the course of the cross-examination the plaintiff has admitted that one Mahathappa is the preposituos of the family who dies about 30 years ago.	ANALYSIS
This plaintiff Subbappa and Madappa were the children of the prepositus one Mahanthappa.	ANALYSIS
It has also been admitted that all the suit schedule properties were the ancestral properties of the family.	ANALYSIS

But this plaintiff has admitted that he was residing in the house of the Girijamma just to eat.	ANALYSIS
For better appreciation I cull out the admissions; ....  vAz ɸg ĺAv. Cg wjPAq 30 Vz.
 ....  vAz 1984 EAiİ wjVzg. iz  Ct.
 .......  Ī azAi vAV Vjd ģAiİ Vzã.	NONE
vAzAi vAVAi ģAiİ Hl iq Vz. ....	NONE
VjdU P̽g.	NONE

 15. But the plaintiff has denied that he had given in adoption to one Girijamma who is the sister of the Mahanthappa.	ANALYSIS
However, defendants have filed and marked certified copy of the adoption deed dt:29.06.1956 which clearly discloses that plaintiff has been given in adoption to Girijamma in the year 1956 itself through a registered adoption deed dt:29.06.1956 which is the 30 years old document it has its own presumptive value U/s.90 of the Indian Evidence Act, the contents of it can be believed without any further proof.	ANALYSIS
The effect of the Registration of the Document has been explained by the author T.P.Gopalakrishna in his book Law of Wills which runs as under; 13. Effect of registration.	ANALYSIS
 The registration of a document is a strong circumstances that proper parties had appeared before the registering officer and the latter had attested the same after ascertaining their identities.	ANALYSIS
16. As per the provisions of the Indian Registration Act and Hindu Adoption Act, adoption deed is the compulsorily registerable document.	ANALYSIS
In the instant case, the adoption deed has been registered before the Sub-Registrar during the course of his ordinarily working hours.	ANALYSIS
Hence, it can be said that the adoption deed is to be validly executed and attested by the persons by whom it purports to be executed and attested, hence, it is the valid document.	ANALYSIS
The adoption deed dt:29.06.1956 is the registered document.	ANALYSIS
With regard to the status of the plaintiff as adoptive son of the Girijamma, the plaintiff by suppressing the original adoption deed has filed this false suit claiming half share in the suit schedule property.	ANALYSIS
However, the defendants have produced few more documents such as on demand promissory note Ex.D2 executed by the plaintiff himself in favour of the father of the 1st defendant wherein there is a clear recital with regard to the plaintiff as the adopted son of the Girijamma.	ANALYSIS
There is also a recital in Ex.D3, Ex.D3 is the Conversion deed executed by the Girijamma and her adopted son Subbappa in favour of one Patel Subbappa on 12.12.1959 itself.	ANALYSIS
On careful perusal of the entire evidence before this court, it is quite clear that plaintiff is the son prepositus Mahanthappa who has been given in adoption to the Girijamma who is the sister of the Mahanthappa through a registered adoption deed 29.06.1956 itself.	ANALYSIS
As per Hindu Adoption Act, if a child of Hindu joint family has been given in adoption, it ceases all relationship with the natural family so also all the rights over the properties of the natural family.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, all the properties of the joint family of the Mahanthappa have been got mutated in the name of the Madappa alone and kathas have been rightly changed in the name of the Madappa.	ANALYSIS
The Madappa and his successors were continued their possession and enjoyment over the suit schedule property as owners.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, this court is of the opinion that though the plaintiff Subbappa was the son of the Mahanthappa, now he is not a member of the joint family consisting of the defendants and the suit schedule properties were not the properties amenable for partition between the plaintiff and defendants.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, the plaintiff is not entitled for any share in the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
Hence, I answer issue No.1 in the negative.	ANALYSIS
The genealogical tree submitted by the plaintiff dt:06.08.2008 is not genuine, because it does not give complete picture about the existing members of the joint family headed by the prepositus Mahanthappa, it does not disclose the fact of giving of the plaintiff in adoption to one Smt.Girijamma.	ANALYSIS
Hence, the genealogy dt:06.08.2008 is not genuine, true and correct, hence, I answer issue No.2 in the negative.	ANALYSIS
In view of my above discussion defendants have succeeded in proving the adoption of the plaintiff to one Smt.Girijamma through a registered adoption deed dt:29.06.1956.	ANALYSIS

Hence, issue No.4 in the affirmative.	ANALYSIS

 17. Issue No.3:	ANALYSIS
On the basis of the rival contentions taken up by the defendants this issue No.3 has been framed placing the burden on the defendants to prove that the suit is barred by law of limitation.	ANALYSIS

In order to substantiate their contention defendants have cross- examined DW1 wherein the plaintiff has admitted that father of the plaintiff died in the year 1994 itself as this suit is for partition, partition opens soon after the death of the father.	ANALYSIS
This suit has been filed by the plaintiff on 01.12.2008, as per the plaint averments plaintiff has been excluded from the joint family property since last 30 years, it has been deposed by the plaintiff that at the time of the marriage of his brother 30 years ago the plaintiff asked for the partition.	ANALYSIS
But he has not made partition and given any share to the plaintiff, in this way the plaintiff excluded from the joint family property.	ANALYSIS
The plaintiff has also admitted during the course of the cross-examination with the consent of both the parties all the suit schedule properties have been mutated in the Madappa.	ANALYSIS
But this plaintiff kept mum for all these days till the death of his elder brother Madappa in the year 2002 and thereafter kathas have been mutated in the name of the defendant No.2 on 09.05.2003 itself.	ANALYSIS
In this way plaintiff kept mum till the death of Madappa.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter, he filed this suit.	ANALYSIS
for better appreciation I cull out the evidence of the PW1 in his cross-examination Ctڣ UߪV 30  ïVz. tڣ UߪzU Pýz. Dzg Cg Pq.	NONE
Avg   zg Eg MnU EgĪ JAz gtU MAz irzã.	NONE
Q vB üvg gtU DV g iv DVv.	NONE
Sv Cg ɸjU zRzU  K vPgg ir JAzg jAiĮ. Sv AiiU DVz JAz U Uwz.
 	NONE
18. In this way knowing fully well the plaintiff kept mum for about more than 30 years without taking any step to get partitioned the suit schedule property.	ANALYSIS
Now after the lapse of more than 32 years, this plaintiff has filed this suit.	ANALYSIS
The plaintiff ought to have claimed partition within 12 years.	ANALYSIS
As per the article 110 of the Limitation Act any persons excluded from the joint family property to enforce right to share therein has to file suit within 12 years when the exclusion becomes known to the plaintiff.	ANALYSIS
For better appreciation I cull out the provisions of Article 110 of the Limitation Act.	ANALYSIS
Article 110. By a Twelve years  When the exclusion person excluded                 becomes known to the from a joint family             plaintiff property to enforce a right to share therein 19.	ANALYSIS
Hence, on careful perusal of the materials before this court and the provisions of the Limitation Act, this court is of the opinion that the suit is barred by law of limitation also.	ANALYSIS
Hence, defendants have proved that the suit is barred by law of limitation.	ANALYSIS
Hence, I answer issue No.3 in the affirmative.	ANALYSIS

 20. Issue No.5:	ANALYSIS
On the basis of the rival contentions taken up by the respective this issue has been framed placing the burden on the plaintiff to prove his entitlement for partition and separate possession of the suit schedule properties with metes and bounds as prayed for.	ANALYSIS
In view of my above discussion and the reasons stated therein this court is of the opinion that this plaintiff has been given in adoption to one Girijamma through registered adoption deed dt:29.06.1956, hence, the plaintiff severe all the relationship with the natural family, the plaintiff is not entitled to claim any property in the natural family.	ANALYSIS
Hence, now the plaintiff cannot be regarded as the member of the joint family headed by the prepositus Mahanthappa and all the suit schedule properties are the properties of the joint family of prepositus Mahanthappa.	RATIO
Now the plaintiff is not entitled for any partition and separate possession of the suit schedule properties.	RATIO

Hence, I answer issue No.5 in the negative.	ANALYSIS

 21. Issue No.6:	RPC
In view of my above discussions and my answer to the above issues, I proceed to pass the following; O R D E R	RPC
The suit of the plaintiff is hereby dismissed with cost.	RPC

(Dictated to the Stenographer, transcript corrected and then pronounced by me in open Court, on this the 29th day of February 2012.)	NONE
(M.G. Kudavakkaliger) Senior Civil Judge & JMFC T. Narasipura.	NONE
ANNEXURE List of witnesses examined for the plaintiff: PW1: Subbappa.
 List of witnesses examined for the defendant: DW1: Maramma.	NONE
List of documents exhibited for the plaintiff: Ex.P1: Genealogical tree.	NONE

Ex.P2 to 4: M.R.Copies.	NONE
Ex.P5 to 7: 3 R.T.Cs.	NONE
Ex.P8:	NONE
Legal notice.	NONE
Ex.P9: Reply notice.	NONE
List of documents exhibited for the defendants: Ex.	NONE
D1: Certified copy of Adoption deed dt:29.06.1956.	NONE
Ex.D2: Original on demand pro-note.	NONE
Ex.D3: Certified copy of conversion deed dt:12.12.1959.	NONE
Ex.D4: Certified copy of MR 4/80-81.	NONE
Ex.D5 & 6: 12 Nos. of RTCs.	NONE

Ex.D7 to 11: RTCs.	NONE
Ex.D12: Certified copy of Lease Agreement.	NONE

 Senior Civil Judge & JMFC T. Narasipura.	NONE
