IN THE COURT OF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE FIRST CLASS, ,
                                 ROURKELA.

    Present:

              Miss Neha Das.B.B.A, LL.B.
              Judicial Magistrate First Class,
              Rourkela.	PREAMBLE
2(a)CC Case No. 314 of 2015
                	PREAMBLE
Trial No. 81 of 2016	PREAMBLE
State                           ... Complainant.

              -Versus-

Bali Vengra,aged about 50 years,S/	PREAMBLE
o-Chamu Vengra,of At-Ghogar,P.S-	PREAMBLE

Raiboga,Dist-Sundargarh	PREAMBLE
.

                                                                    ... Accused.

    Counsel for the State           ... A.P.P., ROURKELA.
    Counsel for the Defence         ...	PREAMBLE
Shri. S.K.Sahoo	PREAMBLE
&

                                         Associates.

    Date of conclusion of Argument  : 19.02.2016	PREAMBLE
Date of Judgment                : 20.02.2016	PREAMBLE
Offence U/s 47 (a) of Bihar and Orissa Excise Act.	PREAMBLE
JUDGMENT	PREAMBLE
1.  Accused above named stands charged for the offence punishable U/s 47(a) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act(in short 'B & O Excise Act') with allegation of unlawful possession of five liters of I.D. Liquor , without any license or authority.	FAC

2. Brief story of prosecution follows: That on 22.06.2015 at bout 8.AM., the then S. I.of Excise namely Fakira Dehuri (informant) had gone for excise patrolling along with other staff towards village Ghogar.	FAC
Informant further alleged that during patrolling, they found one person coming on the road carrying one plastic jarycane in a suspicious manner.	FAC
Upon suspicion, informant detained the person who identified himself as Bali Vengra.	FAC
Informant further alleged that upon suspicion he conducted search of the accused after observing all legal formalities and recovered one plastic jarycane containing about five liters of I.D.liquor.	FAC
Then on suspicion, informant conducted blue litmus paper test with the liquid which turned red.	FAC
Informant also conducted hydrometer test with the liquid and found it's temperature 87'F,indication 82.2 and strength 56.7'UP.	FAC
Informant further alleged that from the above tests and his distillery experience, he concluded it as I.D.liquor	FAC
.Informant further alleged that as the accused on demand failed to produce any license or authority for possession of such liquor,he seized the jarycane containing the liquor and prepared seizure list at the spot in presence of accused and witnesses.	FAC
After completion of investigation, prosecution report was submitted against the accused U/s.47(a)of B&O Excise Act.	FAC

Hence, the case.	FAC

3. Plea of the accused is one of complete denial of the above allegations.	FAC
4. Hence, point for determination in this case is that: i) Whether On 22.06.2015 at about 8.00 A.M on the road near village Ghogar, the accused was in exclusive and conscious possession of five liters of I.D liquor, without any license or authority. ?	ISSUE
5. In order to establish the charge, prosecution has examined as many as three witnesses out of whom, P.W.3 is the informant S.I of Excise Fakira Dehuri who made the seizure .On the other hand, defence has examined none to further it's stand.	FAC
6. It is forthcoming from the testimony of P.W.3 that on 22.06.2015 at about 8.00 A.M., while he had gone for excise patrolling along with other staff towards village Ghogar.	FAC
P.W.3further deposed that during patrolling they found one person coming on the road carrying one plastic jarycane in a suspicious manner.	FAC
P.W.3further deposed that upon suspicion, he detained the person who identified himself as Bali Vengra.	FAC
P.W.3 further deposed that upon suspicion he conducted search of the accused after observing all legal formalities and recovered one plastic jarycane containing about five liters of I.D.liquor	FAC
.P.W.3 further deposed that upon suspicion, he conducted blue litmus paper test with the liquid which turned red.	FAC
P.W.3 further deposed that he also conducted hydrometer test with the liquid and found it's temperature 87'F,indication 82.2 and strength 56.7'UP.P.W.3	FAC
further deposed that from the above tests and his distillery experience, he concluded it as I.D liquor	FAC
.P.W.3 further deposed that as the accused on demand failed to produce any license or authority for possession of such liquor, he seized the jarycane containing the liquor and prepared seizure list at the spot in presence of accused and witnesses.	FAC
Testimonies of P.W.1 and P.W.2 are similar to that of P.W.3 in all material particulars regarding the seizure of liquor from the possession of the accused at the relevant time and place.	FAC
P.W.1 proved the said seizure list vide Ext.2, his signature there on vide Ext.2/1,the hydrometer test chart vide Ext.1 blue litmus paper vide Ext.1/1 and his signature on hydrometer chart vide  	FAC
P.w.2 also proved his signature on the seizure list vide Ext.2/2 and also proved his signature on hydrometer chart vide Ext.1/3.	FAC
P.W.3 also proved and his signature on the hydrometer chart vide Ext.1/4 and his signature on the seizure list vide.	FAC
Ext.2/3.
 P.W.3 in his cross examination admitted that no command certificate was issued to them for the purpose of patrolling duty at the alleged date and time and that the seized articles \were not produced in court.	ANALYSIS

7. Now in order to establish the charge U/s.47(a) of B & O Excise Act, it is incumbent upon the prosecution to establish through direct and cogent evidences that: (i) The seized liquid was I.D.liquor (intoxicant).
        (ii) That the liquor was possessed by the accused without any license or authority.	ANALYSIS

        (iii) That it was seized from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS

        The prosecution has relied upon the testimony of P.W.3 to establish the charge against the accused.	ANALYSIS
P.W.3 deposed that he conducted blue litmus paper test with the liquid which turned red.	ANALYSIS
P.W.3 further deposed that he conducted hydrometer test with the liquid and found it's temperature 87'F,indication 82.2 and strength 56.7'	ANALYSIS
UP.P.W.3	ANALYSIS
further	ANALYSIS
deposed that from the above tests and his distillery experience , he concluded the said liquid as I.D.liquor.	ANALYSIS
In Suma Das Vrs.State of Orissa reported in 1993(II) OLR- 392,Hon'ble Court has observed that "Chemical test is the surest test for determining the illicit liquor .Other tests are litmus and hydrometer test but can not be said to be surest unless prosecution establishes by evidence that the officer who made the test was specially skilled because his evidence is to be accepted as evidence of expert U/s 45 of Indian Evidence Act.	PRE_RELIED
Simple statement that the officer has been working in the department for a number of years would not attract Sec 45 of Indian Evidence Act".	PRE_RELIED
In this case , there is no evidence forth-coming that the liquor was sent for chemical test which is the surest test to conclude the liquid is nothing but ID Liquor	ANALYSIS
.The evidence of prosecution witnesses clearly revealed that the said liquid was not sent for any chemical test.	ANALYSIS
Further P.W.3 admitted not to have submitted his distillery training certificate with case record.	ANALYSIS
Hence, in view of the above , fact that the liquid is nothing but liquor comes under cloud.	ANALYSIS
Hence, it can be safely concluded that prosecution has failed to prove that the liquid is noting but ID liquor,beyond all reasonable doubts.	ANALYSIS
8. Now coming to the second ingredient i.e to establish the fact that the liquor was seized from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused person, the prosecution has relied upon the testimonies of P.
W.1,P.W.2 and P.W.3, who deposed similarly regarding seizure of the liquor from the possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
However, prosecution has not brought any independent corroboration to establish regarding seizure of the liquor from the possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
The seized article was also not produced before the Court during the course of trial.	ANALYSIS
Prosecution has also not adduced any evidence that the accused persons had dominion or control over the seized article .In view of the above discussion	ANALYSIS
, the fact that the seized article was recovered from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused person became doubtful.	ANALYSIS
Hence, it is concluded that prosecution has failed to prove the factum of seizure from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused persons beyond all the reasonable doubts.	ANALYSIS
Hence, the prosecution evidences on record in my opinion are not sufficient to establish the fact that the liquor has been seized from exclusive and conscious possession of the accused person.	ANALYSIS

Hence, from the discussions above made, I am of the view that prosecution has failed miserably to bring such direct and cogent evidences to establish the vital ingredients of offence U/s.47(a) of Bihar and Orissa Excise Act beyond all reasonable doubt.	RATIO
9. In the result, therefore, I hold the accused person not guilty of committing the offence U/s 47(a)of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act and acquit him U/s 248(1) Criminal Procedure Code.	RPC
The accused person be set at liberty forthwith if he is in custody and no other case is pending against him and is discharged from his bail bonds, if any.
 	RPC
The seized article be destroyed after four months of expiry of appeal period if no appeal is preferred an if preferred , be dealt with	RPC
as per the direction of the Appellate Court.	RPC

 "Enter this case as mistake of fact for statistical purpose".
 JMFC,Rourkela.	NONE

 Judgment is dictated and corrected by me, pronounced in the open court on this the 20th day of February , 2016 under my signature an seal of the Court.	NONE

 JMFC,Rourkela.	NONE
List of Pws examined.	NONE

 P.W.1    Chadrakanta Behera.	NONE

 P.W.2    Pradeep Sahu.	NONE
P.W.3          Fakir Behuri.	NONE
List of Dws examined.	NONE
N I l.
 List of Exts. marked by the Prosecution.
 Ext.1          Hydrometer Chart.
Ext.1/1        Blue litmus paper.
Ext.1/2        Signature of P.W.1 .
Ext.1/3        Signature of P.W.2 .
Ext.1/4        Signature on hydrometer chart.
Ext.2          Seizure list.
Ext.2/1        Signature of P.W.1 .
Ext.2/2        Signature of P.W.2.
Ext.2/3        Signature of P.W.3.	NONE
List of Exts. marked by the Defence.	NONE

 N I l.
 Judicial Magistrate First Class Rourkela.	NONE
