IN THE COURT OF THE PRL. SESSIONS JUDGE AT	PREAMBLE

                                  MYSORE	PREAMBLE
Dated this the 25th day of March, 2010

Present: Sri.Sandesh.H.P.,B.A.L., LL.B.,
              Prl.District & Sessions Judge.

Petitioner:   Crl.Mis.No.450/2010

             Gowramma,
             W/o. Thammaiah,
             60 years,
             R/at Doddahosuru Village,
             Periyapatna Taluk,
             Mysore District.

Respondent:                     (By Sri.N. Karunakara, Advocate)

                                 Vs.

             Station House Officer,
             Bylakuppe Police Station,
             Periyapatna Taluk,
             Mysore District.

             (By Learned Public Prosecutor)

                               : O R D E R S :	PREAMBLE
This petition is filed U/Sec.438 of Cr.PC., seeking Anticipatory Bail in respect of Cr.No.14/2010 for the offences punishable under Sec.498(A) and Sec.3 & 4 of D.P. Act.	FAC

 2. Brief facts of the case are: It is alleged in the complaint that the marriage of the complainant was solemnized with the accused No.1 six years ago and she was living cordially along with her husband and parent-in-laws and out of the said wedlock, she is having two children and at the time of her marriage, her parents gave Rs.10,000/- and 15 gms. gold and from last two years, her husband and parent-in-laws insisted her to get Rs.50,000/- and an auto, otherwise, they were going to take away her life and subjected her for both mental and physical harassment and though a panchayath was held 3 months ago, these petitioners subjected her for harassment and told not to come till she gets money and an auto and she has been driven out from the house 3 months ago and hence, she lodged the complaint with the Police and the Police have registered a case against this petitioner and others.	FAC
It is the contention of the petitioner that she has not committed any offences as alleged and she is innocent and accused No.1 and 2 are already on bail and she undertakes to offer surety and abide by the terms and conditions that may be imposed by this Court in the event of her release on bail.
	ARG_PETITIONER
3. The learned Public Prosecutor has filed his objection statement, reiterating the averments of the complaint and also it is contended that the offences alleged against the petitioner are punishable with maximum of 5 years and there is a chance of committing of similar type of offences and prayed this Court to dismiss the bail application.	ARG_RESPONDENT
4. I heard the arguments of the petitioner's Counsel and also the learned Public Prosecutor.	NONE
The points that arise for my consideration are: 1) Whether the petitioner has made out a ground to grant Anticipatory Bail, by invoking Sec.438 of Cr.P.C.?
 2) What order?	ISSUE

 5. My findings on the above points are as follows: Point No.(1) In the Affirmative Point No.(2) As per the final order, for the following: R E A S O N S 6.	ANALYSIS
Point No.1:	ANALYSIS
On perusal of complaint, an allegation is made in the complaint that the marriage of the complainant was solemnized with the accused No.1 six years ago and at the time of marriage, her parents have given Rs.10,000/- as dowry and 15 gms. of golden ornaments and she was cordial in the matrimonial home till she got two children and from last two years, she was subjected to both mental and physical harassment and they insisted her to get Rs.50,000/- and an auto and 3 months ago, they driven her out from the matrimonial home and now, she is staying in her parental house along with her children.	ANALYSIS

 7. It is the contention of the petitioner that she is innocent and not committed any offences as alleged in the complaint and the offences alleged against the petitioner are not punishable with death or imprisonment for life and a false allegation is made against her and she is ready to offer surety and there is an apprehension of arrest.	ARG_PETITIONER

 8. It is the contention of the learned P.P. that the complainant was subjected to harassment by this petitioner along with her son and on perusal of the case records, this petitioner is the mother-in-law of the complainant and a general allegation is made against this petitioner that along with her husband and son, the complainant was subjected to harassment and here, it has to be noted that in terms of the complaint averments, she was driven out from the matrimonial house 3 months ago and by taking into consideration of nature of allegation and also the complaint averments, the offences alleged against the petitioner are not punishable with death or imprisonment for life.	ARG_RESPONDENT
However, this Court can take note of the apprehension of the prosecution regarding tampering of prosecution witnesses by imposing some conditions to safeguard the interest of the prosecution and hence, I answered Point No.1 in Affirmative.	RATIO

 9. Point No.2	NONE
: In the result, I pass the following: O R D E R	RPC
The bail petition filed U/Sec.438 of Cr.PC. is allowed.	RPC

 The petitioner is ordered to be released on Anticipatory Bail on executing a personal bond for Rs.25,000/- with one surety for likesum, in the event of her arrest, subject to the following conditions: 1.	RPC
The petitioner shall appear before the I.O., whenever the I.O. calls her till filing of the charge sheet to assist the investigation.	RPC

 2. The petitioner shall not tamper the prosecution witnesses and cause obstruction to investigation.	RPC

 This order will be in force for a period of two months and the petitioner is directed to approach the Jurisdictional Magistrate for regular bail and the concerned Court is at liberty to consider the matter on merits Judiciously.	RPC

 (Dictated to the Stenographer, transcribed by her on Computer, revised corrected and then pronounced by me in the open court on this day the 25th March 2010) (H.P. Sandesh) Prl.District & Sessions Judge, Mysore.	NONE

 UR/*	NONE
