 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BANGALORE

        DATED THIS THE 23rd DAY OF OCTOBER 2013

                                  BEFORE

     THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE ANAND BYRAREDDY

               CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.1877 OF 2006

Between:

1. B.L.Basavaraju
   S/o Lingappa
   Age: 35 years

2. B.L.Ramesh
   S/o Lingappa
   Age: 40 years

3. B.L.Chandrashekara
   S/o Lingappa
   Age:	PREAMBLE
35 years	PREAMBLE


4. Manjunatha
   S/o Shivananjappa
   Age: 35 years

5. Suresha
   S/o Shivananjappa
   Age: 35 years

6. Chandraiah
   S/o Halaiah, Age: 35 years

7. Gurulingappa
   S/o Shivananjappa
   Age: 40 years	PREAMBLE


8. Dharanesha
   S/o Mallikarjuna
   Age: 26 years

All are r/o Byragondanahalli               ... Appellants
Banavara Hobli
Arasikere Taluk

(By Sri.Hashmath Pasha, Adv.)

And:

State of Karnataka                         ... Respondent
By Banavara Police
Arasikere Taluk
Hassan District
Rep by learned State
Public Prosecutor

(By Sri.B.T.Venkatesh, SPP-II)
                                      ---

       	PREAMBLE
This Criminal Appeal is filed under Section 374(2) Cr.P.C.
against the judgment dated 14.9.2006 passed by Addl. S.J.,
Hassan in S.C.No.158/2005 convicting the appellants / accused
for the offence punishable under Sections 143, 148, 341 and 326
r/w Section 149 of IPC and etc.

       	PREAMBLE
This Appeal coming on for Hearing this day, the Court
delivered the following:-

                                 O R D E R	PREAMBLE

       Heard the learned counsel for the appellants and the learned State Public Prosecutor.	NONE
2. The present appellants were accused before the Trial Court and have been convicted for the offences punishable under Sections 143, 148, 341, 326 read with 149 of Indian Penal Code, 1908.	RLC
3. The facts leading up to this appeal are:	NONE
 It was the case of the prosecution that Chidananda, the complainant, was a resident of Byragondanahalli Village.	FAC
He had gone to Arasikere on 23.2.2005 in order to see off his wife who was travelling in a bus and thereafter he was returning on his motorcycle at about 10.30 a.m.	FAC
When he neared his village Bendekere, he saw a motor van bearing registration No.KA.14 3474 being driven at high speed on the wrong side of the road approaching him and therefore, he tried to avoid the vehicle by turning his motorcycle, but, however, accused No.1 Basavaraju who was driving the vehicle intercepted his motorcycle and dashed against him, as a result of which, plaintiff is said to have fallen to the ground.	FAC
Thereafter, the accused had emerged from the motor van and on seeing them, the plaintiff picked himself up and started running, but accused No.1 Basavaraju who was holding an iron rod, chased him and assaulted him on the right leg with it, as a result of which the complainant fell to the ground at which time Dharanesha accused No.8 and Ramesha accused No.2 had assaulted him with wooden clubs and accused Nos.3 to 5 assaulted him with their hands.	FAC

 4. It was claimed by the prosecution that accused No.1 Basavaraju had stood for the Panchayat elections and one Ramesha was his rival candidate and the complainant had supported Ramesha at the elections.	FAC
The accused were peeved by the fact that he had supported Ramesha and therefore, the pre- meditated attack on the victim.	FAC
It is also stated that Basavaraju, apart from assaulting the victim with an iron rod, had picked up a size stone and attempted to drop it on the head of the complainant when he was lying on the ground, but for the complainant moving aside it would have been dropped on his head, however since he had raised his hands to protect himself, the stone fell on his right little finger and also left forehand, as a result of which, he had sustained injuries.	FAC
At that point of time, it is stated that Kumaranna, Marulappa, Jagadeesha and Rajanna had come to his rescue and it is on seeing these people that the accused had fled in the car in which they had come.	FAC
The complainant was shifted to Arasikere hospital for treatment and thereafter a statement was recorded by the Station House Officer on 23.2.2005 at about 11.30 a.m. and thereafter, further proceedings were taken, accused were arrested, chargesheeted and later charges were also framed against the accused to which they have pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.	FAC
The Court below, after having heard both the parties and after complying with other proceedings, framed the following points for consideration: 1.	ISSUE
"Whether the prosecution proves that on 23.2.2005 at about 10.30 p.m., near Nagasamudra Shikharanya High School situated at B.H.Road of Bendekere Village the accused persons had formed themselves into an unlawful assembly in order to commit the offences in prosecution of common object of such unlawful assembly and thereby committed the offence punishable under Section 143 read with Section 149 of Indian Penal Code?	ISSUE
2. Whether the prosecution proves that on the above said date, time and place in prosecution of common object of unlawful assembly the accused persons have committed rioting armed with deadly weapons and thereby committed the offence punishable under Section 148 read with Section 149 of Indian Penal Code?	ISSUE
3. Whether the prosecution proves that on the above said date, time and place in prosecution of common object of unlawful assembly have wrongfully restrained Chidananda from proceeding in the direction in which he has a right to proceed and thereby committed the offence punishable under Section 341 read with Section 149 at Indian Penal Code?	ISSUE

   4. Whether the prosecution proves on the above said date, time and place in prosecution of common object of unlawful assembly have attempted to commit the murder of Chidananda and thereby committed the offence punishable under Section 307 read with Section 149 of Indian Penal Code?"	ISSUE

 5. The Court below held point Nos.1 to 3 in the affirmative and point No.4 in the negative and convicted the accused to undergo simple imprisonment for three months and to pay a fine of `.100/- for the offence punishable under Section 143 of IPC, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three months and to pay a fine of `.500/- for the offence punishable under Section 148 of IPC, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months and to pay a fine of `.500/- for the offence punishable under Section 341 of IPC and to undergo rigorous imprisonment for two years and to pay a fine of `.1,000/- for the offence punishable under Section 326 of IPC.	RLC
It is this which is under challenge in the present appeal.	RLC

 6. The learned counsel for the appellants would first of all draw attention to the sequence of events as narrated, to demonstrate that the exaggerated version of the prosecution is not forthcoming from a bare reading of the allegations.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is alleged that there were 8 accused, most of whom were armed with deadly weapons; that the victim was assaulted with the same.	ARG_PETITIONER
Given the description of the weapons and the same which were produced as material objects, it is difficult to accept that the injuries caused were only in the nature of abrasions, which were minor in nature.	ARG_PETITIONER
Except that an injury defined as a fracture is vaguely mentioned in the wound certificate, there is no material evidence placed on record to indicate that the victim had suffered any kind of fracture and there is also no material placed on record to indicate that the victim was an inpatient and had undergone treatment for any serious injury.	ARG_PETITIONER
Though there is a claim that he was an inpatient, no material evidence is produced before the Court.	ARG_PETITIONER
On the other hand, there is evidence on record to indicate that the victim had exercised his franchise at the elections held in the village, two days after the incident, which was against the statement that he was an inpatient for a week after the incident.	ARG_PETITIONER
In this regard, though the learned counsel for the appellants would take this Court through the further details of the alleged incident as claimed by the prosecution to demonstrate that it was impossible for a large number of 8 people to have simultaneously attacked the victim and to only cause minor injuries, when most were armed with deadly weapons and therefore, would submit that there is a background which is not also in dispute of the victim having established a fair price depot and accused No.1 also having established a fair price depot and there being unhealthy competition between them and a case and counter case being filed for the irregularities in the fair price depot which lead to enemity between the two and further there being also political rivalry, it was just to foist a false case against the appellants in order to prevent their participation in the elections, that the entire case has been engineered and therefore, he would submit that the injuries which are described in the wound certificate are from a mere fall from a vehicle which has been used to the advantage of the victim in claiming that there was a criminal assault, as a result of which he has suffered the injuries and therefore, there is no substance in the same.	ARG_PETITIONER

 7. The learned counsel would also point out that the entire findings of the Trial Court are based on the evidence tendered by PW-6.	ARG_PETITIONER
PW-6, in his evidence, has narrated that he was in his house when he heard the collusion and he had come out of the house at which time, the other witnesses namely PWs-2 and 4 who had also joined him and had witnessed the actual commission of the offence but the learned counsel would point out that if, going by the sequence of events, as claimed by the prosecution, if it is to be believed that PW-6 first heard the maruti van crashing into the motorcycle and on hearing the collision if he had come out, the assault by the accused if at all had occurred, would have been completed by the time he positioned himself to witness the scene.	ARG_PETITIONER

But he had claimed that, each of the witnesses had been in a position to record as to the overt acts committed by each of the accused.	ARG_PETITIONER
This is difficult to accept, especially in the light of the circumstance that PWs-2 and 4 who also claimed to be witness to the incident, had not supported the case of the prosecution.	ARG_PETITIONER

Therefore, the entire prosecution case in so far as the allegation of the complainant being sought to be supported by the evidence of PW-6 cannot be accepted as enabling the prosecution to establish the case beyond all reasonable doubt.	ARG_PETITIONER
In the absence of cogent medical evidence to support the so called serious injuries suffered by the victim and in the absence of cogent evidence in support of the case of the prosecution, except that of PW-6 and the self- serving evidence of the plaintiff, the prosecution has not established its case as found by the Trial Court and therefore, would submit that the conviction has lead to a miscarriage of justice and seeks intervention of the Court.	ARG_PETITIONER
While the learned State Public Prosecutor would seek to justify the judgment of the Trial Court.	ARG_PETITIONER
8. In the light of the above rival contentions and from the material on record, as rightly contended by the learned counsel for the appellants, if the case of the prosecution is to be accepted and the accused having employed deadly weapons to attack the victim and if indeed he had been assaulted in the manner as claimed, the injuries suffered by the complainant would not have been restricted to mere abrasions.	ANALYSIS
Though there is mention of a fracture which is only vaguely indicated in the wound certificate, there is no other material evidence as regard to the victim having suffered serious fracture.	ANALYSIS
There is also no material evidence of the victim having undergone treatment as an inpatient, though the claim made by him in the course of evidence, it is unchallenged by the accused.	ANALYSIS
Secondly, the sequence of events, as projected by the prosecution on the basis of the complainant's statement and which is sought to be supported by PW-6, does not also evoke the confidence of this Court for the manner in which the incident is stated to have occurred to be seconded by the statement of PW-6, is difficult to accept since the incident, if it had indeed taken place, would have occurred at a pace so swift that it would be difficult for an eye witness to record the overt acts of each of the 8 accused persons and to state the same with any degree of certainty.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, it is difficult to accept that the moment the vehicle on which the victim was travelling was intercepted, PW-6 having run out of his house and having been in a position to witness the incident as it unravelled.	RATIO
Therefore, it is evident that PW-6 has been cited as a witness, only to lend lip support to the case of the prosecution and going by the background that there was political enemity between the two groups, it is an apparent attempt to make out a case against the accused.	RATIO
Therefore, given the sequence of events and the material on record, this Court does not find that the Trial Court was justified in convicting the accused for the offences alleged.	RATIO

 Accordingly, the appeal is allowed.	RPC
Judgment of the Court below is set aside.	RPC
The appellants are acquitted.	RPC
The fine amount, if any paid, shall be refunded.	RPC
Bail bonds stand cancelled.	RPC

 Sd/- JUDGE RV	NONE
