IN THE COURT OF THE IV	PREAMBLE
ADDL DISTRICT AND	PREAMBLE

               SESSIONS JUDGE, MYSURU	PREAMBLE


                       :: PRESENT ::

                Sri Hosamani Pundalik,
          IV	PREAMBLE
Addl. District & Sessions Judge,	PREAMBLE
Mysuru.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             \

                    SC.No.40/2018

          Dated this the 8th day of July, 2019

Complainant:

                          State by Jayapura Police

                              (Rep. By Public Prosecutor)

              Versus

Accused:

                          Basappa,
                          S/o late Basavegowda,
                          Aged 52 years,
                          Resident of D. Salundi Village,
                          Mysuru District.

                               	PREAMBLE
(By Smt. V.Mythili., Advocate)

1.	PREAMBLE
Date of offence            : 01.09.2017

	PREAMBLE
2. Date of report of offence  : 02.09.2017

	PREAMBLE
3. Arrest	PREAMBLE
of the accused	PREAMBLE
Arrested on : 03.09.2017

              Remanded to JC :	PREAMBLE
03.09.2017	PREAMBLE
Released on : Accused is in JC

          Period of custody : Year/s, Month/s, Day/s

              For Accused     01 10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             05


4. Name of the complainant     : Kumara

5. Date of commencement of : 03.08.2018
   recording of evidence

6. Date of closing of evidence : 30.05.2019

7.	PREAMBLE
Offences	PREAMBLE
complained	PREAMBLE
of      : U/sec.302 of Indian Penal	PREAMBLE

                                    Code

8	PREAMBLE
. Opinion of the Judge        : The accused found guilty of
                                    the offence U/sec.302 of
                                    Indian Penal Code.	PREAMBLE


                            *~*~*

J U D G M E N T
 	PREAMBLE
This is a charge sheet filed by the Circle Inspector, Mysuru Rural Circle, Mysuru against the accused for the offence punishable U/sec.302 of Indian Penal Code.
 2.	FAC
The case of the prosecution in brief is as under:	FAC
That on 01.09.2017 at about 11.00 a.m. the deceased Shivamma came to the house of the accused who is her brother, for bringing food as husband of her sister was admitted in the hospital, as such when Shivamma requested for providing prepared food, at that time accused picked up quarrel with Shivamma in respect of property and assaulted Shivamma with Repees patti (wooden plank) on her head, to which she has sustained grievous injuries with bleeding and lost her conscious, immediately she was shifted to Aravinda Hospital, Mysuru and on the way while shifting to NIMHANS Hospital, Bengaluru she died on 02.09.2017 at about 4.30 a.m.	FAC
Thereafter sister's son of the accused by name Kumara lodged first information before the police about the alleged incident in question.	FAC
On the basis of said information a crime came to be registered in Cr.No.145/2017 of Jayapura Police Station.	FAC
The F.I.R.
was submitted to the jurisdictional Judicial Magistrate.	FAC
Thereafter, the Investigating Officer went to the K.R.
Hospital and conducted Inquest panchanama and arrested the accused and recorded confessional statement of the accused and thereafter he went to the spot with the accused and conducted spot panchanama and seized material objects under cover of panchanama and also conducted another seizure panchanama at the instance of the accused and seized Repees Patti (wooden plank) and recorded the statement of witnesses and obtained Post Mortem report, FSL report and after completion of the investigation the I.O. has filed the present charge sheet against the accused for the offence punishable under Sec.302 of IPC.
 3.	FAC
After filing of the chargesheet, as there are sufficient grounds to proceed against the accused, the cognizance of the offence alleged against the accused was taken by the Learned Magistrate.	FAC
The accused is in judicial custody and he is represented by the Advocate.	FAC

The Learned Magistrate has also furnished the copies of the prosecution papers to the accused as required U/sec.207 of Cr.P.C.
 4.	FAC
As the offence punishable U/sec.302 of Indian Penal Code is exclusively triable by the Court of Sessions, the Learned Magistrate has committed the case to the Sessions Court by exercising his powers U/sec.209 of Cr.P.C.
 5.	FAC
After receipt of records the learned Prl. District & Sessions Judge, Mysuru made over the present case to this court for disposal in accordance with law.	FAC
The accused secured before the court by issuing intimation to the Jail Authority for production of the accused before the court and he is represented by the counsel.	FAC

 6. After hearing the Learned Public Prosecutor and that of the learned counsel for the accused	ANALYSIS
. As there are sufficient material available on record, my learned Predecessor has framed the charge U/sec.302 of Indian Penal Code against the accused and the same was read over and explained to accused and he pleaded not guilty and claims to be tried.	ANALYSIS

 7. In order to prove its case, the prosecution has examined in all 16 witnesses as PW.1 to PW.16 and got marked as many as 13 documents as Ex.P.1 to P.13 and four material objects as MO.1 to 4 and closed the side.	ANALYSIS

 8. After closure of the evidence on the side of the prosecution, the statement of accused as required U/sec.313 of Cr.P.C., has been recorded to enable the accused to explain the incriminating evidence appearing against him in the case of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
The case of the accused is of total denial and he has not chosen to lead any oral evidence and in support of his defence in the present case he has got marked Ex.D1  Statement under Sec.161 Cr.P.C. of Nagendra (PW.8) and Ex.D2  Statement under Sec.161 Cr.P.C. of Siddarama (PW.9).
 9.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter, I have heard the arguments advanced by the Learned Public Prosecutor for the State and that of the learned counsel for the accused at length and perused the records.	ANALYSIS

 10. The points that would arise for my consideration in this case are as under: 1. Whether the prosecution proves beyond all reasonable doubt that, on 01.09.2017 at about 11.00 a.m. at the house of accused, the accused assaulted Shivamma with Repees patti (wooden plank) on her head, to which she sustained bleeding grievous injures and lost her conscious and died on the way to NIMHANS Hospital on 02.09.2017 at about 4.30 a.m. and the accused committed murder by intentionally and knowingly causing the death of Shivamma and thereby committed an offence punishable under Sec.302 of IPC?
 2.	ISSUE
What Order ?	ISSUE

 11. My findings to the above points are as under: Point No.1 : In the Affirmative Point No.2 : As per the final order, for the following: :: R E A S O N S :: 12	ANALYSIS
. Point No.1:	ANALYSIS
As already pointed out by me the Prosecution has examined as many as 16 witnesses and got marked 13 documents as Ex.P1 to Ex.P13 and four MOs as MO.1 to 4.	ANALYSIS
PW.1  Kumara, first informant who has lodged the first information before the police and eye witness to the alleged incident.	ANALYSIS
PW.2  	ANALYSIS
Shwetha, daughterinlaw of the accused and eyewitness to the alleged incident .	ANALYSIS
PW.3  	ANALYSIS
Malagamma  neighbour and eyewitness to the alleged incident.	ANALYSIS
PW.4  Doreswamy, pancha to the inquest panchanama of Shivamma.	ANALYSIS
PW.5  	ANALYSIS
Ramesha, son of the deceased Shivamma and hear say witness.	ANALYSIS
PW.6  Sakamma, wife of Ramesh and daughterinlaw of deceased Shivamma and hear say witness.	ANALYSIS
PW.7  	ANALYSIS
Kalamma, sister of the accused and hear say witness.	ANALYSIS
PW.8  	ANALYSIS
Nagendra son of the accused and husband of Shweatha and hear say witness.	ANALYSIS
PW.9  Siddarama @ Siddaramegowda, son of the accused and eyewitness to the alleged incident.	ANALYSIS
PW.10  Dr.
Somashekar, Scientific Officer, RFSL, who examined the viscera.	ANALYSIS
PW.11  Dr. Chandrashekar, Assistant Director, RFSL, who examined the Material Objects.	ANALYSIS
PW.12  	ANALYSIS
Dr.
Anil Sangli, who treated the injured at initial stage in Aravinda Hospital.	ANALYSIS
PW.13  Dr. Dayanand R., who conducted post mortem.	ANALYSIS
PW.14  	ANALYSIS
Chandra M., pancha to the inquest panchanama  Ex.P.4, spot panchanama  Ex.P.2 and seizure of MO.1 to 4 and seizure panchanama of Repees patti as per Ex.P.10.	ANALYSIS
PW.15  	ANALYSIS
Jagadeesha C., ASI, who registered the case.	ANALYSIS
PW.16  	ANALYSIS
Kareem Ravathar, Investigation Officer, who conducted investigation and filed the charge sheet.	ANALYSIS
The details of Ex.P1 to Ex.P13, MO.1 to 4 and Ex.D1 and Ex.D2 are given in the annexure to this judgment.	ANALYSIS
13. The learned Public Prosecutor for the state has submitted that the oral and documentary evidence adduced by the prosecution are sufficient to bring home the alleged guilt of the accused and prayed for convicting the accused.	ARG_PETITIONER

 Per contra, it is contended by the learned counsel for the accused that the prosecution has failed to prove beyond all reasonable doubt that the accused has committed an offence alleged against him.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Further contended that there is a contradiction and omissions in the evidence adduced by the prosecution and prayed for acquittal of the accused by relying on the judgment reported in 2012 Crl.L.J.293 in the case of Ganeshi Paswan and another Vs. State of Jharkhand, wherein the Hon'ble Jharkahand High Court has held that: Vital contradictions in evidence of eyewitnesses  Difference was relating to presence of eyewitnesses  Fardbeyan was recorded after about 5 hours of time of occurrence  But manner of occurrence as stated by witnesses was not disclosed in F.I.R.  	ARG_RESPONDENT
Post Mortem	ARG_RESPONDENT
conducted	ARG_RESPONDENT
with ante mortem injuries  Accused deserve benefit of doubt.	ARG_RESPONDENT

Another decision reported in 2011 Crl.L.J. 4338 in the case of Sayaji Hanmat Bankar Vs. State of Maharashtra, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that : Sudden fight  Quarrel ensuing between accused and wife as soon as he entered house in drunken condition  Accused thereupon first threw water pot and then burning lamp on deceased  wife  Wife getting 70% burns because of nylon saree worn by her  Death resulted because of sudden fight, without premeditation Accused liable to be convicted under S.304, Part I and not for murder.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 14. Now we shall turn out attention to the evidence adduced by the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
Now coming to the evidence of PW.1, PW.1  Kumara is sister's son of the accused and eyewitness to the alleged incident.	ANALYSIS
PW.1 in his evidence has stated that accused is his maternal uncle and he is residing in D. Salundi village.	ANALYSIS
Further he has stated that on 01.09.2017 he had been to the house of accused at that time his aunt by name Shivamma also came to the house of accused to take food to the husband of her sister, who was admitted in the hospital.	ANALYSIS

Further PW.1 in his evidence has stated that when his auntShivamma requested to provide prepared food or else to give money to buy the food, for which accused picked up quarrel with Shivamma in respect of property matter and assaulted with repees patti (wooden plank) on her head and caused bleeding injuries and she fell down and lost her conscious and blood oozed out from her nose, ear and mouth, at that time himself, son of accused by name Siddarama and daughterinlaw Shwetha were present, said Shwetha brought one lungi cloth and tied it to head of Shivamma and they shifted the injured to Aravinda Hospital in Ambulance but she was referred to NIMHANS Hospital, Bengaluru for further treatment and hence they informed the same to the Nagendra, who is another son of accused, thereafter Nagendra and his mother came to the hospital and then they proceeded to Bengaluru but the doctors of NIMHANS hospital after examining Shivamma in the Ambulance declared that she was dead, then the dead body of Shivamma was kept in mortuary of K.R. hospital and then he went to the police station and lodged first information.	ANALYSIS
PW.1 identified MO.1  Repees patti (wooden plank).	ANALYSIS
Nothing is elicited in the cross examination of PW.1 made on behalf of the accused to disbelieve his evidence.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of PW.1 is cogent, convincing and reliable evidence and I have no reason to disbelieve his evidence.	ANALYSIS

 15. PW.2  Shwetha, who is the daughterinlaw of the accused and eyewitness to the alleged incident, who tied lungi (cloth) to the deceased Shivamma.	ANALYSIS
PW.2 in her evidence has stated that PW.1 is her uncle, accused is her fatherinlaw and accused had two wives and that the first wife of accused by name Leelavathi @ Beeramma died since 25 years back and second wife by name Siddamma is alive.	ANALYSIS
Further she has stated that accused had 3 children, they are Nagendra (who is her husband), Revanna and Siddaramu.	ANALYSIS
Further PW.2 has stated that accused had 4 sisters, deceased Shivamma is his elder sister and they had quarrel with respect to property matter and the civil case was ended in conciliation but all the sisters used to come to the house of accused.	ANALYSIS
On 01.09.2017 at about 10.30  11.00 a.m. when PW.2, accused and Siddarama were in the house at that time PW.1 Kumara came to see her son and deceased Shivamma also came to take food to the husband of her sister, who was hospitalised, at that time Shivamma requested to provide prepared food or else to give money to buy the food, for which accused picked up quarrel with Shivamma in respect of property matter and assaulted with repees patti (wooden plank) on her head and caused bleeding injuries and she fell down and lost her conscious and blood oozed out from her nose, ear and mouth.	ANALYSIS
PW.2 has further stated that at that time the son of accused by name Siddarama and herself were present, then she tied lungi (cloth) to the head of Shivamma, then accused on seeing the blood went away thereafter PW.1 and Siddarama called Ambulance and took her to Aravinda hospital but they referred to NIMHANS hospital.	ANALYSIS
There the doctors examined Shivamma in the Ambulance and declared the death of Shivamma.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter they came back to Mysuru and the dead body was kept in the mortuary of K.R. hospital and she has identified MO.1  Repees patti and MO.2  lungi.	ANALYSIS
Further PW.2 in her evidence has stated that on 03.09.2017 at about 12.30  1.00 p.m. police have brought the accused near the house and accused showed the place of incident to the police, at that time police have collected blood stained mud and nonblood stained mud.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter, she handed over lungi (cloth) which was tied to deceased Shivamma's head and police have seized the same under the cover of mahazar Ex.P.2.
CW.5, 6 & accused have signed to the Ex.P.2  Mahazar.	ANALYSIS

PW.2 has identified MO.3  	ANALYSIS
blood stained mud and MO.4 nonblood stained mud	ANALYSIS
. Nothing is elicited in the crossexamination of PW.2 made on behalf of the accused to disbelieve her evidence.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of PW.2 is cogent, convincing and reliable evidence and I have no reason to disbelieve his evidence.	ANALYSIS

 16. PW.3  Malagamma, who is neighbour and eye witness to the alleged incident.	ANALYSIS
PW.3 in her evidence has stated that she knows PW.1 and 2 and also accused and her house is near to the house of accused.	ANALYSIS
PW.3 has stated in her evidence that accused had two wives, three children and four sisters.	ANALYSIS
Deceased Shivamma is the elder sister of the accused.	ANALYSIS
PW.3 has stated in her evidence that about 3 years 1 month back to the date of incident quarrel was taking place with Shivamma and she intervened and advised accused not to quarrel, but the accused took Repees patti (wooden plank) and assaulted Shivamma with Repees patti (wooden plank) on her head and she sustained injuries.	ANALYSIS
PW.2  Shwetha tied lungi (cloth) to the head of Shivamma, thereafter herself, son of the accused and others shifted the injured to the hospital and thereafter injured was shifted to Bengaluru but Shivamma did not survive and she attended the funerals.	ANALYSIS
PW.3 identified MO.1  	ANALYSIS
Repees	ANALYSIS
patti (wooden plank) and MO.2  lungi (cloth).	ANALYSIS
Nothing is elicited in the crossexamination of PW.3 made on behalf of the accused to disbelieve her evidence.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of PW.3 is cogent, convincing and reliable evidence and I have no reason to disbelieve his evidence.	ANALYSIS

 17. PW.9  Siddarama @ Siddaramegowda, who is the son of the accused and eyewitness to the alleged incident	ANALYSIS
. PW.9 in his evidence has stated that accused is his father and accused had two wives, his mother name is Leelavathi @ Beeramma and she had three children, all of them are married and his brothers are drivers and he was doing agriculture.	ANALYSIS
His father has got four sisters and he has got landed property, to which sisters have questioned regarding sale of landed property, to which there was no cordial relationship between his father and sisters.	ANALYSIS
CW.9 is his aunt and she is elder sister of accused.	ANALYSIS
Husband of CW.9 was admitted in Sanitarium hospital.	ANALYSIS
PW.9 further in his evidence has stated that about 1 years back, his aunt Shivamma came to the house from hospital to take food and requested the accused to provide prepared food or else to give money to buy the food, for which accused picked up quarrel with Shivamma in respect of property matter and assaulted with repees patti (wooden plank) on her head and caused bleeding injuries and she fell down and lost her conscious and blood oozed out from her nose, ear and mouth and his sisterinlaw tied lungi (cloth) to the head of Shivamma.	ANALYSIS
PW.9 has specifically stated that because of property dispute the accused assaulted to Shivamma with Repees Patti (wooden plank) and himself, PW.1, 2 & 3 were present at the time of incident and took her to Aravinda hospital and thereafter PW.1, 7 & 8 took her to NIMHANS hospital and he came to know about the death of Shivamma through phone by his brother at about 5.00 to 6.00 a.m.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter, PW.1 went to the police station and lodged first information.	ANALYSIS
PW.9 further in his evidence has specifically stated that because of the property dispute accused assaulted Shivamma and died due to head injury and he has identified MO.1  Repees patti (wooden plank).	ANALYSIS
On careful perusal of this evidence, it can be said that the property dispute is the motive for the accused to assault Shivamma.	ANALYSIS
PW.9 in his evidence denied the statement  Ex.D2(a) that his mother died 25 years back and also denied Ex.D2(b) that civil case ended with the mediation of lawyer.	ANALYSIS
These contradictions are not material contradictions and are not going to effect the case of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
Nothing is elicited in the crossexamination of PW.9 made on behalf of the accused to disbelieve his evidence.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of PW.9 is cogent, convincing and reliable evidence and I have no reason to disbelieve his evidence.	ANALYSIS
18. PW.5  Ramesh, son of the deceased Shivamma.	ANALYSIS

PW.8 in his evidence has stated that about 2 years back his mother went to see the Marigowda, who is admitted in the hospital and thereafter he went to the house of accused and there he came to know that the accused assaulted to his mother in respect of property dispute and she was admitted to Aravinda hospital and thereafter she was shifted to Bengaluru, there she died and then dead body of Shivamma was shifted to mortuary of K.R.
Hospital.	ANALYSIS
PW.6  Sakamma, wife of PW.5 and daughter inlaw of deceased Shivamma.	ANALYSIS
PW.6 in her evidence has stated that about 1  years back her motherinlaw went to see the Marigowda, who is admitted in the hospital and thereafter she went to the house of accused and there she came to know that the accused assaulted to her motherinlaw in respect of property dispute and she was admitted to Aravinda hospital and thereafter she was shifted to Bengaluru, there she died and then dead body of Shivamma was shifted to mortuary of K.R.
Hospital.	ANALYSIS
PW.7  Kalamma, who is sister of accused and deceased Shivamma.	ANALYSIS
PW.7 in her evidence has stated that about 1 year back, she came to know that the accused assaulted to her sister Shivamma and she was admitted to Aravinda hospital and thereafter she was shifted to NIMHANS Hospital, Bengaluru, there she died and then dead body of Shivamma was shifted to mortuary of K.R. Hospital.	ANALYSIS
PW.8  Nagendra, son of the accused and husband of PW.2 and brother of PW.9.	ANALYSIS
PW.8 in his evidence has stated that about 1 year back his aunt Shivamma came to his house to take food and there was quarrel between his aunt Shivamma and his father (accused) and he assaulted her with Repees Patti (wooden plank) in respect of property, to which she sustained injuries.	ANALYSIS
Then Shivamma was admitted to Aravinda hospital and thereafter she was shifted to Bengaluru, there she died and then dead body of Shivamma was shifted to mortuary of K.R. Hospital.	ANALYSIS
PW.5 to 8 are hear say witnesses and they have supported the case of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
PW.8 in his evidence denied the statement  Ex.D1(a) that civil case ended with the mediation of lawyer and also denied the statement Ex.D1(b) that the accused married to Siddamma after the death of his mother about 25 years back.	ANALYSIS
These contradictions are not material contradictions and are not going to effect the case of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS

 19. PW.4  Doreswamy, pancha to the inquest panchanama of Shivamma.	ANALYSIS
PW.4 in his evidence has stated that about one year back at mortuary of K.R.
Hospital the police have conducted inquest of deceased Shivamma as per Ex.P.4 and further he has stated that deceased Shivamma died as the accused assaulted her in respect of property.	ANALYSIS
Nothing is elicited in the cross examination of PW.4 made on behalf of the accused to disbelieve her evidence.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of PW.4 is cogent, convincing and reliable evidence and I have no reason to disbelieve his evidence.	ANALYSIS
20. PW.14  Chandra M, pancha to the inquest panchanama of deceased Shivamma, spot panchanama and also seizure panchanama.	ANALYSIS
PW.14 in his evidence has stated that on 02.09.2017 deceased Shivamma died and police have conducted inquest panchanama of deceased Shivamma as per Ex.P.4 and obtained his signature and further stated that there was injury on the head of dead body.	ANALYSIS
Further PW.14 in his evidence stated that on 03.09.2017 the police have conducted spot panchanama as per Ex.P.2 and seized MO.2 to 4 and further in his evidence stated that the police have also conducted seizure panchanama as per Ex.P.10 near Mount Litera convent at the instance of the accused and seized MO.1  Repees Patti (wooden plank).	ANALYSIS
Nothing is elicited in the crossexamination of PW.14 made on behalf of the accused to disbelieve his evidence.	ANALYSIS
21. PW.10  Dr. Somashekar, Scientific Officer, RFSL has stated in his evidence that he has received item No.1 Stomach, small intestine and its contents, item No.2  portion of liver and kidney, item No.3  blood, item No.4  satuarated solution of sodium chloride as preservative and he opined in his evidence that Residues of volatile poisons, ethyl alcohol, pesticides, barbiturates, benzodiazepine group of drugs, toxic metal ions and anions were not detected in all the above stated articles.
 22. PW.11  Dr. Chandrashekar, Assistant Director, RFSL, Mysuru has stated in his evidence that he has received item No.1  blood stained mud, item No.2  sample mud, item No.3  one lungi, item No.4  Repees patti (wooden plank) and he opined in his evidence that (1) blood stain was detected in article No.1 and 3.	ANALYSIS
(2) blood stain was not detected in item No.2 and 4. (3) Article No.1 and 3 were stained with human blood.	ANALYSIS
(4) Article No.1 and 3 were stained with "O" group blood.	ANALYSIS

 23. PW.12  	ANALYSIS
Dr. Anil Sangli, Neuro Surgeon.	ANALYSIS
PW.12 in his evidence has stated that on 01.09.2017 at about 3.10 p.m. by name Shivamma admitted in Aravinda Hospital with alleged assault by the younger brother  Basappa of the patient around 10.00 a.m. on the same day and she was hit by wooden log on the head as per information by Nagendra and Siddarama.	ANALYSIS
The patient had immediate loss of conscious and injury to head.	ANALYSIS
She was having seizures, was unconscious with a score of E1VTM5 and right sided complete weakness.	ANALYSIS
Her brain scan revealed a left sided extra dural hemorrhage with mid line shift.	ANALYSIS

She was advised emergency surgery.	ANALYSIS
Relatives wanted to take the patient to NIMHANS hospital for further treatment.	ANALYSIS
A perusal of the evidence of the doctor makes it clear that the case history recorded by the doctor to whom deceased was taken for treatment deposing that soon after the deceased was admitted in the hospital, the Nagendra and Siddarama informed that the accused assaulted to Shivamma and the same was noted in the case papers by the doctor.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of the doctor supports to the case of the prosecution and hence it is held that doctor has no reason to falsely depose against the accused or to prepare false case papers and it inspires the confidence of the court.	ANALYSIS

 24. PW.13  	ANALYSIS
Dr. Dayanand R., Associate Professor, Department of Forensic Laboratory, MMC, Mysuru.	ANALYSIS

PW.13 in his evidence has stated that On 02.09.2017 at 5.00 pm he received requisition from CPI, Mysuru Rural Circle, Jayapura PS to conduct postmortem on the body of deceased Shivamma aged about 60 years.	ANALYSIS
Accordingly, on the same day from 5.00 p.m. to 6.00 pm, he had conducted postmortem of Shivamma.	ANALYSIS
During his examination noted the following injuries; 1. Stapled wound measuring 12cm present over the left parietal area with 21 staples in sito, situated 7cm above the left mastoid process and 2cm left of mid line.	ANALYSIS
On removal of staples and reflection shows extravasation of blood.
 2. Contusion 4 X 3cm present over the top of the right shoulder.
 PW.13 has opined that the above mentioned injuries are antimortem in nature and has further deposed in his evidence that on dissection he found the following internal injuries; 1.  Scalp  described.	ANALYSIS
On reflection shows extravasation of blood over the left fronto temporo parietal area and occipital area.	ANALYSIS
Skulldepressed communited fractures over the area of 6X 4cm over the left parietal area.	ANALYSIS
Fissure fracture 7cm present over the left tempro parietal areal.	ANALYSIS
One end joining with previous fracture.	ANALYSIS
Fissure fracture 4cm present over the left side of middle cranial fossa.	ANALYSIS

    2. Membraneslacerated corresponding to the fracture site.	ANALYSIS

    3. Brain and spinal cord Diffused subdural and subarachnoid hemorrhage present all over.	ANALYSIS
Extra dural hemorrhage present over an area of 10X 8 cm present over left tempro parietal area.	ANALYSIS
All other organs were congested.	ANALYSIS
Blood effused around fracture sites.	ANALYSIS

    Blood and visra sent to RFSL for chemical analysis.	ANALYSIS

    On 17.11.2017 after receiving report from RFSL.
    PW.13 has opined that death is due to complications of head injury sustained and has issued PM report as per Ex.P.8.	ANALYSIS
Nothing is elicited in the cross examination of PW.13 by the accused to disbelieve his evidence.	ANALYSIS
25. PW.15  	ANALYSIS
Jagadeesha C., ASI.	ANALYSIS
PW.15 in his evidence has stated that on 02.09.2017 at about 11.00 a.m. when he was incharge of police station, complainant appeared before him and lodged first information.	ANALYSIS
On the basis of said information, a case was registered in Cr.No.145/2017 of Jayapura police station and FIR was submitted to the court as well to his departmental heads and handed over further investigation to the CPI.	ANALYSIS
PW.15 has further stated that he has arrested the accused and produced before CPI.	ANALYSIS

 26. PW.16  Kareem Ravatar, CPI.	ANALYSIS
PW.16 in his evidence has stated that on 29.09.2017 at 11.30 a.m. he took further investigation from PW.15 and went to K.R.
Hospital and conducted inquest panchanama as per Ex.P.4 in the presence of witnesses and thereafter on 03.09.2017 at about 8.30 a.m., his subordinates brought the accused before him and he arrested the accused after following necessary procedure as required to be followed under law and recorded confessional statement of the accused as per Ex.P12 and thereafter he has conducted spot panchanama in the presence of panchas and seized MO.2 to 4 as per Ex.P.2 and thereafter he conducted seizure panchanama and seized MO.1 at the instance of the accused as per Ex.P.10 and subjected the property to the property form and thereafter recorded statements of witnesses and also police officials and thereafter he obtained PM report, FSL reports and final opinion of the doctors and after completion of the investigation, has filed the charge sheet against the accused.	ANALYSIS
Nothing is elicited in the crossexamination of PW.16 by the accused to disbelieve his evidence.	ANALYSIS

 27. It is the case of the prosecution that on 01.09.2017 at about 11.00 a.m. deceased Shivamma came to the house of the accused who is her brother, for bringing food as husband of her sister was admitted in the hospital, as such when Shivamma requested for providing prepared food, at that time accused picked up quarrel with Shivamma in respect of property dispute and assaulted Shivamma with Repees patti (wooden plank) on her head, to which she has sustained grievous injuries with bleeding, immediately she was shifted to Aravinda Hospital, Mysuru and on the way while shifting to NIMHANS Hospital, Bengaluru she died on 02.09.2017 at about 4.30 a.m.	ANALYSIS
It is pertinent to note that PW.1 to 3 & 9 in their evidence stated that the accused picked up quarrel with Shivamma in respect of property matter and assaulted with repees patti (wooden plank) on her head and caused bleeding injuries and she fell down and lost her conscious and blood oozed out from her nose, ear and mouth and she died due to injuries, therefore it can be held that PW.1 to 3 and 9 had no reasons to falsely depose against the accused, the evidence of PW.1 to 3 & 9 are cogent, convincing & reliable evidence, which inspires the confidence of the court.	ANALYSIS
Nothing is elicited in the crossexamination of PW.1 to 3 & 9 to disbelieve their evidence.	ANALYSIS
Though there are minor discrepancies and contradictions in the evidence they are very negligible.	ANALYSIS

Under these circumstances it is evident that the recovery of MO.1  Repees Patti (wooden plank) at the instance of accused is admissible as provided under Sec.27 of Indian Evidence Act.	ANALYSIS
No doubt motive moves a man to do a particular act and there cannot be any action without motive which must exist for every voluntary act.	ANALYSIS
In the instant case the prosecution has specifically alleged that the accused assaulted Shivamma with Repees Patti (wooden plank) because of property dispute.	ANALYSIS
The fact that the accused murdered the Shivamma by assaulting with Repees Patti (wooden plank) on her head causing bleeding injuries resulting in death and it is evident that his motive was to kill Shivamma.	ANALYSIS
The prosecution is able to establish and proved that the death of Shivamma is homicidal and it is clear case of murder.	ANALYSIS

 28. The object and purpose of a statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. is to notify the accused about the incriminating circumstance appearing in the case against him and also to provide an opportunity to explain about his conduct or version.	ANALYSIS
In the present case on hand all the incriminating circumstances were put to the accused on 20.06.2019.	ANALYSIS
His case was of entire denial and made no statements about his say on the case.	ANALYSIS
In fact he answered in the negative when questioned as to whether he has any thing to say about the case.	ANALYSIS
Opportunity was given to adduce defence evidence but he did not utilize the opportunity.	ANALYSIS
Considering the defence taken by the accused in the case on hand, I am of the opinion that he ought to has furnished his version during recording of 313 Statement and also ought to have adduced his side evidence but he has not adduced his evidence.	ANALYSIS

 29. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Sunil Mahadeo Jadhav V/s State of Maharashtra, (2013) 15 SCC 177 has drawn reference to Section 106 of the Evidence Act 1872 which states that when any act is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him.	PRE_RELIED
The accused had stated nothing in this regard in his statement under Section 313 CrPC and also failed to adduce any evidence in defence to explain his defence.	PRE_RELIED

 30. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Phula Singh V/s State of H.P reported in (2014) 4 SCC 9 had rejected the submission that prosecution has to establish each and every fact and accused has a right only to maintain silence.	PRE_RELIED
Adverse inference was drawn against the accused for not at all trying to explain the incriminating circumstances against him.	PRE_RELIED

 31. As observed above in the case on hand also the accused had failed to explain the incriminating circumstances brought to his notice during questioning U/s. 313 Cr.P.C.	ANALYSIS
Since he had answered in the Negative when asked about his say about the case, adverse inference can be drawn that the accused had murdered Shivamma by assaulted with Repees Patti (wooden plank) on her head.	ANALYSIS

 32. It is pertinent to note that the CPI after registration of the case, took the further investigation on the same day at about 11.30 a.m. and went to the K.R.Hospital and conducted inquest panchanama of deceased Shivamma and arrested the accused and recorded confessional statement as per Ex.P12 and went to the spot with the accused and conducted spot panchanama and seized MOs under cover of panchanama as per Ex.P.2 and also conducted another seizure panchanama as per Ex.P.10 and seized MO.1 at the instance of the accused.	ANALYSIS
It is clear that the Medical Officer, who conducted post mortem and gave evidence as PW.13 has opined that the death is due to complication of head injury.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of Medical Officer and Investigation Officer corroborates to the evidence of eyewitnesses.	ANALYSIS
The ruling relied by the learned counsel for the accused is not going to helpful for the case of the accused.	ANALYSIS

 33. It is pertinent to note that the decision in the case of State of Andhra Pradesh Vs. R.Punnayya, reported in AIR 1977 SC 45, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that when the Court is confronted with the question whether the offence is 'murder' or culpable homicide not amounting to murder', the problem is to be approached in three stages.	PRE_RELIED
The question to be considered at first stage is whether the accused has done an act by doing which he has caused the death of another person.	PRE_RELIED
Proof of such casual connection between the act of the accused and the death leads to the second stage for consideration whether that act of the accused amounts to 'culpable homicide' as defined in Section 299.	PRE_RELIED

If the answer of this question is prima facie found in the affirmative the stage is reached for considering the operation of Section 300 IP Code.	PRE_RELIED
This is the stage at which the Court should determine whether the acts proved by the prosecution bring the case within the ambit of any of the four clauses of the definition of "murder" contained in Section 300.	PRE_RELIED
If the answer to this question is in the negative the offence would be culpable homicide not amounting to murder punishable under the first or the second or the third clause of section 299 is applicable.	PRE_RELIED
If the question is found to be positive, but comes within any of the Exceptions enumerated in Section 300, the offence would still be culpable homicide not amounting to murder punishable under the first part of section 304.	PRE_RELIED
But sometimes the facts are so intertwined and the second and third stages are so telescoped into each other that it may not be convenient to give a separate treatment to the matters involved in the second and the third stages.	PRE_RELIED
Further the acts and circumstances proved by the prosecution brings the case squarely within the ambit of the four clauses of the definition of "murder' contained in Section 300 IPC.
 34.	PRE_RELIED
It is pertinent to note that PW.1 to 3 and 9  eye witnesses to the alleged incident, in their evidence specifically stated that accused picked up quarrel with Shivamma in respect of property matter and assaulted with repees patti (wooden plank) on her head and caused bleeding injuries and she fell down and lost her conscious and blood oozed out from her nose, ear and mouth and she died due to injuries.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of PW.1 to 3 and 9 corroborated to the evidence of PW.13  Medical Officer and evidence of PW.15 & 16  evidence of Investigating Officers.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of PW.1 to 3 and 9 and PW.7 and PW.13, 15 & 16 pointing out the accused as perpetrator of the crime.	ANALYSIS
PW.1 is the son of the sister of the accused, PW.2 is the daughterinlaw of the accused (wife of the son of the accused), PW.9 is the son of the accused and PW.3 is the neighbour. PW.1 to 3 & 9 are the eyewitnesses to the alleged incident and nothing is elicited in their crossexamination to disbelieve their evidence.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, the evidence of above witnesses are cogent, convincing and reliable evidence and I have no reason to disbelieve their evidence and the evidence of PW.1 to 3 & 9 inspires the confidence of the court.	ANALYSIS

Further the acts and circumstances proved by the prosecution brings the case squarely within the ambit of the four clauses of the definition of murder contained in Section 300 of IPC.	RATIO
Therefore, in the circumstances it can be held that the evidence adduced by the prosecution are sufficient to hold the accused is guilty under Sec.302 of IPC.	RATIO
For the far going reasons, I hold that the prosecution has successfully proved that, the accused has committed the offence alleged against him beyond all reasonable doubt.	RATIO
Hence, I answered Point No.1 in the AFFIRMATIVE.	RPC

 35. Point No.2:	RPC
In view of my findings on Point No.1, I proceed to pass the following:	RPC
:: ORDER :: Accused is convicted for the offence punishable U/sec.302 of Indian Penal Code by acting U/sec.235(2) of Cr.P.C.
 MO.1 to 4 are ordered to be destroyed after expiry of the appeal period as same are worthless.	RPC

 To hear on sentence by 09.07.2019.
 [Dictated to the Stenographer directly on computer, corrected and signed by me, then order pronounced in the Open Court, on this the 8th day of July, 2019].	NONE
[HOSAMANI PUNDALIK]	NONE
IV Addl. District & Sessions Judge, Mysuru.	NONE

 Dated this the 9th day of July 2019 ORDER REGARDING SENTENCE The accused produced before the Court for hearing regarding sentence.	NONE
2. I have heard the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the accused and that of the learned Public Prosecutor for the State regarding sentence.	ANALYSIS
The learned counsel for the accused has submitted that, the accused is aged about 64 years and he has given only one blow without any intention to cause death and he may be imposed with minimum sentence prescribed under law.	ANALYSIS

 3. Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor has submitted that the accused committed murder of his own sister and he assaulted to the deceased in respect of property dispute.	ANALYSIS
Hence, he prayed to sentence the accused as provided under Sec.302 of IPC.
 4.	ANALYSIS
It is pertinent to note that charge sheet reveals that age of the accused is 52 years and the prosecution has proved the guilt of accused for the offence punishable under Sec. 302 of Indian Penal Code.	ANALYSIS
The offence under Sec.302 of Indian Penal Code is punishable with death or imprisonment for life and fine.	ANALYSIS
But, there is no evidence placed on record to show that, it is a rarest of rare case so as to impose death penalty.	ANALYSIS
However, it is evident that the accused had caused the death of his own sister  Shivamma by assaulting with Repees Patti (wooden plank) on her head when she came to his house for taking prepared food to provide the same to the husband of her sister who was admitted in the hospital.	ANALYSIS
Under these circumstances, in my considered opinion, it is just and proper to impose punishment of rigorous imprisonment for life with fine of Rs.1,00,000/ (Rupees one lakh only) to the accused for the offence under Sec.302 of IPC, which will serve the purpose to meet the ends of justice.	ANALYSIS

 5. In the light of the above discussion, accused is liable to undergo sentences and accordingly, I pass the following; ORDER The accused  Basappa is sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for life for the offence punishable under Section 302 of I.P.C. and sentenced to pay fine of Rs.1,00,000/ (Rupees one lakh only).	RPC
In default of payment of fine, he shall undergo simple imprisonment for six months.	RPC
The period of detention of accused in judicial custody is set off as against the sentence imposed against him, as required under Sec.428 of Cr.P.C.
 	RPC
Out of the fine amount collected, Rs.80,000/ (Rupees Eighty thousand only) shall be paid to the Legal Representatives of the deceased Shivamma by way of compensation under Sec.357A of Cr.P.C.
 	RPC
Office	RPC
is directed to furnish free copy of this judgment to the accused forthwith.	RPC

 [Dictated to the Stenographer directly on computer, corrected and signed by me, then order pronounced in the Open Court, on this the 9th day of July, 2019].	NONE
[HOSAMANI PUNDALIK] IV	NONE
Addl. District & Sessions Judge, Mysuru.	NONE
ANNEXURE List of witnesses examined for the Prosecution: PW.	NONE
1.   Kumara PW.	NONE
2.   Shwetha PW.	NONE
3.   Malagamma PW.	NONE
4.   Doreswamy PW.	NONE
5.   Ramesh PW.	NONE
6.   Sakamma PW.	NONE
7.   Kalamma PW.	NONE
8.   Nagendra PW.	NONE
9.   Siddarama @ Siddaramegowda PW.	NONE
10.  Dr. Somashekar PW.	NONE
11.  Dr. Chandrashekar PW.	NONE
12.  Dr. Anil Sangli PW.	NONE
13.  Dr. Dayanad R.
 PW.	NONE
14.   Chandra PW. 15.	NONE
  Jagadish PW.	NONE
16.   Kareem Ravathar	NONE
List of witnesses examined for the accused : - NIL - List of documents marked for the Prosecution :	NONE
Ex.P.  1  Complaint Ex.P.
Ex.P.  1(a) Signature of PW.1 Ex.P.
Ex.P.  1(b) Signature of PW.15 Ex.P.
Ex.P.  2  Mahazar Ex.P.
Ex.P.  2(a) Signature of PW.2 Ex.P.
Ex.P.  2(b) Signature of PW.14 Ex.P.  2(c) Signature of PW.16 Ex.P.
Ex.P.  3  Mahazar Ex.P.
Ex.P.  3(a) Statement of PW.3 Ex.P.
       4  Inquest Mahazar Ex.P.
Ex.P.  4(a) & Signature of PW.4 Ex.P.  (b) Ex.P.
Ex.P.  4(c) Signature of PW.16 Ex.P.
Ex.P.  5  F.S.L. Report 5(a) Signature of PW.10 5(b) Signature of Sujatha K.M.
 6  FSL Report 6(a) & Signature of PW.11 (b) 6(c) Sample seal 7  Medical record 7(a) Signature of PW.12 8  P.M. Report 8(a) Signature of PW.13 9  Doctor's Report 9(a) Signature of PW.13 Ex.P.  10     Mahazar Ex.P.  10(a)  Signature of PW.14 Ex.P.  10(b)  Signature of Krishnamurthy Ex.P.  10(c)  Signature of PW.16 Ex.P.  11     FIR Ex.P.  11(a)  Signature of PW.15 Ex.P.  12     Voluntary statement of the accused Ex.P.  12(a)  Signature of the accused Ex.P.  12(b)  Signature of PW.16 Ex.P.  12(c)  Portion of voluntary statement Ex.P.  13     Rough sketch Ex.P.  13(a)  Signature of PW.16 List of documents marked for the accused : Ex.D.  1      Statement under 161 Cr.P.C. of PW.8 Ex.D.  1(a)   Portion of 161 Cr.P.C. statement of PW.8 Ex.D.  1(b)   Portion of 161 Cr.P.C. statement of PW.8 Ex.D.  2      Statement under 161 Cr.P.C. of PW.9 Ex.D.  2(a)   Portion of 161 Cr.P.C. statement of PW.9 Ex.D.  2(b)   Portion of 161 Cr.P.C. statement of PW.9 List of Material objects : MO. 1         Wooden Repees MO. 2         Lungi MO. 3         Blood stained mud MO. 4         Non-blood stained mud [HOSAMANI PUNDALIK] IV Addl. District & Sessions Judge, Mysuru.
 gkc/*	NONE
