PETITIONER:
KALUA

Vs.

RESPONDENT:	PREAMBLE

THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH

DATE OF JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE

21/11/1956	PREAMBLE
BENCH:
IMAM, SYED JAFFER
BENCH:
IMAM, SYED JAFFER
JAGANNADHADAS, B.
MENON, P. GOVINDA

CITATION:            1957 SCR 187
 1958 AIR 180

ACT:
Criminal Trial-Murdey-Circumstantial evidence-Opinion of
fire-arms expert-Whether conclusive.

HEADNOTE:
One Daya Ram had been murdered by shooting with a country
made pistol.	PREAMBLE
The circumstantial evidence established
against the appellant was (1) that he had a motive for the
murder, (2) that three days before the murder the appellant
had held out a threat to murder the deceased, (3) that a
cartridge Ex. I was found near the cot of the deceased, and
(4) that the appellant produced a country made pistol Ex.
III from his house in circumstances which clearly showed
that he alone could have known of its existence there.	PREAMBLE
The
fire-arms expert examined the recovered pistol and the
cartridge and after making scientific tests was of the
definite opinion that the cartridge Ex. I had been fired
from the pistol Ex. III :
Held, that the opinion of the fire-arms expert conclusively
proved that the cartridge Ex. I had been fired from the
	PREAMBLE
pistol	PREAMBLE
Ex. III	PREAMBLE
.
The circumstantial evidence was sufficient to establish the
guilt of the appellant.	PREAMBLE


JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE

CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 135 of 1956.Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated November 25, 1955, of the Allahabad High Court, in Criminal Appeal No. 702 of 1955 and Referred No. 77 of 1955 arising out of the judgment and order dated May 17, 1955, of the Court of Sessions Judge, at Moradavad in Sessions Trial No.	NONE

29 of 1955.	NONE

P. S. Safeer, for the appellant.	NONE

G. C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the respondent.	NONE

1956.	NONE
November 21.	NONE
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by IMAM	NONE
J.-The	RLC
appellant was sentenced to death for the marder of Daya Ram by shooting him with a country made pistol.	RLC
He was also convicted for being in possession of an unlicensed firearm under the Arms Act for which offence he was sentenced to two years rigorous imprisonment.	RLC
He appealed to the High Court of Allahabad, but his appeal was dismissed and the conviction and sentence was affirmed.	RLC
Against the decision of the Allahabad High Court the appellant obtained special leave to appeal to this Court.	FAC

According to the prosecution, the occurrence took place at about midnight of July 4, 1954, when Daya Ram was sleeping on a cot on a platform.	FAC
Near him were sleeping Gokul, Doongar and Jai Singh, while two women Ratto and Bhuri slept in a room to the north of the platform and adjoining it.	FAC

The report of the shot fired woke up these people.	FAC

According to them, they saw the appellant running towards the east.	FAC
He was accompanied by three others who were armed with lathis.	FAC
Daya Ram died almost instantaneously as the result of the injuries on his chest and stomach from where pellets were recovered at the time of the post mortem examination.	FAC
Daya Ram had been shot from a close distance because the skin was charred over the entire area of the wound.	FAC
Near the cot, on which he slept, a cartridge Ex. I.
was found which was handed over to the Police Officer when he arrived for investigation.	FAC
A first information report was lodged at the police station five miles away at 8-10 a.
m. on July 5, 1954.	FAC

The motive for the murder, as alleged by the prosecution, was that on the death of one Bhai Singh the appellant hoped to become guardian of Ratto's property, who, however, appointed Daya Ram to take charge of it.	FAC
The appellant resented this very much.	FAC
Three days before the murder of Daya Ram there had been a quarrel between the appellant and his wife on the one side and Ratto and Bhuri on the other.	FAC

The quarrel arose over an attempt by the appellant to construct a wall over Ratto's land.'	FAC
The appellant uttered a threat that he would soon settle with the person on whom Ratto was depending, that is to say, the deceased Daya Ram.	FAC

According to the High Court, the defence did not seriously challenge these allegations and the appellant himself admitted that Ratto wanted him to be turned out of his house.	FAC
The appellant was arrested on the night between July 5 and July 6, 1954, at a village fourteen miles away from the village of "occurrence Dhakeri.	FAC
On July 7, he informed the Sub-Inspector that he was prepared to produce the pistol Ex.
III.	FAC
The SubInspector and the appellant went to village Dhakeri and Kartar Singh, Mahtab Singh and Khamani were invited to witness the events that might follow.	FAC
On reaching the appellant's house, which adjoins the resid- ential house of Ratto, the appellant stated that the pistol Ex. III had been concealed by him in a corn-bin.	FAC
From a secret place he took out a key and opened the lock of his house with it.	FAC
He then took the SubInspector and the witnesses to a mud corn-bin inside his house, which appeared to be freshly plastered at one place.	FAC
The appellant removed the plaster at this place and from inside took out the country made 12bore pistol Ex. III, and three live 12-bore cartridges.	FAC
The cartridge Ex. I, which was found near the cot of Daya Ram, and the pistol Ex. III were sent to Shyam Narain, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, who is ,a fire- arms expert of the C. I. D. of Uttar Pradesh Government.	FAC
He made scientific tests.	FAC
He came to the conclusion as the result of the various tests made by him that the cartridge Ex, I was fired from the pistol Ex. III and no other fire- arm.	FAC
While the Sessions Judge believed the testimony of the eye- witnesses, the learned Judges of the. High Court were of the opinion that they were unable to accept the assertion of the eye-witnesses that they actually saw the appellant with a pistol by the bedside of the deceased.	FAC
The High Court, however, relied upon the circumstantial evidence in the case in upholding the conviction of the appellant.	FAC
There was motive for the crime and a few days before the killing of.	FAC

Daya Ram the appellant had held out a threat against him.	FAC
The appellant was arrested fourteen miles away from his village which is the place of occurrence.	FAC
He produced a pistol Ex.III from his house in circumstances which clearly showed that he only could have known of its existence there.	FAC

The opinion of the fire-arms expert clearly established that the cartridge Ex. 1, found near the cot of Daya Ram, was fired with the pistol Ex. III produced -by the appellant.	FAC

All these circumstances, in the opinion of the High Court, left no doubt in the minds of the learned Judges of that Court that the appellant murdered Daya Ram by shooting him with his pistol.	FAC

The learned Advocate for the appellant urged that the appellant could not have placed the pistol in his house and it must have been planted there by someone because none of the witnesses stated that they had seen him going to his house after the murder and the appellant was certainly not found in his house in the morning.	ARG_PETITIONER
According to the situation of the house of the appellant and where the witnesses were immediately after the occurrence, it was impossible for the appellant to have entered his house without being seen.	ARG_PETITIONER
It was further unlikely that after having committed the murder, the appellant, after having run away, would return to his house.	ARG_PETITIONER
Both the Courts below, however, found no reason to disbelieve the Sub-Inspector and the witnesses that the appellant had produced the pistol Ex.
III from the corn-bin inside his house.	ANALYSIS
The appellant had the key of the house which was hidden in a secret place and the com-bin was itself freshly plastered at one place.	ANALYSIS

These circumstances clearly showed that no one but the appellant could haveknown of the existence of the pistol in the corn-bin in his house.	ANALYSIS
As to whether the appellant could or.could not have gone to his house after the occurrence that is a matter of pure speculation.	ANALYSIS
It does not appear that any witness was asked anything about it.	ANALYSIS
The High Court found that the witnesses might have caught a glimpse of the people who were fast disappearing from the scene but who had no reasonable opportunity of marking their features.	ANALYSIS
In the confusion of the occurrence the witnesses may not have observed where the culprits had disa speared except that they were seen running towards the east.	ANALYSIS
On the record, there is nothing to show that to enter the appellant's house, after the occurrence, the appellant had necessarily to go into his house within the view of the witnesses.	ANALYSIS
It is quite unnecessary to examine this matter any further because the evidence concerning the production of the pistol Ex. III by the appellant from his house is' clear and reliable and, therefore, it is certain that the appellant did enter his house after the occurrence without being seen by anyone.	ANALYSIS

It was next urged on behalf of the appellant, that,it was impossible for a cartridge to have been near the cot of Daya Ram, because after the shot had been fired the cartridge would still remain in the barrel of the firearm.	ARG_PETITIONER
This again is pure speculation.	ANALYSIS
That the cartridge was ejected from the fire-arm is certain.	ANALYSIS
Why it was ejected none can say.	ANALYSIS

 It may be that the miscreant reloaded his weapon to meet any emergency.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of the Sub-Inspector is clear that on his arrival at the place of occurrence the cartridge Ex.
 I was handed over to him by the witness Khamani who cannot be said to be unfavorable to the appellant.	ANALYSIS
The Courts below had no reason to disbelieve the evidence in the case that the cartridge Ex. I was found near the cot of Daya Ram and we can find no extraordinary circumstance to justify us saying that the Courts below took an erroneous view of the evidence.	ANALYSIS

 On the facts found there was a motive for the murder.	ANALYSIS

 Apparently, for no good reason the appellant was not found at his house on the morning of July 5, but was in a village fourteen miles away at the time of his arrest.
 	ANALYSIS
The appellant produced the pistol Ex. III in circumstances clearly showing that he had deliberately kept it concealed.	ANALYSIS

 We have no reason to doubt the evidence in this respect.	ANALYSIS

 The real question is, whether it is safe to act upon the opinion of the fire-arms expert that the cartridge Ex. I was fired from the pistol Ex. III produced by the appellant and none other, because without that evidence the circumstantial evidence in the case would be insufficient to convict the appellant of the crime of murder.	ANALYSIS
The opinion of 'the fire-arms expert, based on the result of his tests, does -not seem to have been challenged in cross-examination or before the High Court.	ANALYSIS
If there is no reason to think that there is any room for error in matters of this kind and it is safe to accept the opinion of the expert, then clearly it is established that the cartridge Ex. I, found near the cot of Daya Ram, was fired from the pistol Ex. III produced by the appellant.	ANALYSIS
To satisfy ourselves we have looked into the works of some authors dealing with the marks left on cartridges and shell cases by fire-arms in order to ascertain that there is no error in the opinion of the fire- arms expert in the present case.	ANALYSIS
Kirk in his book "Crime Investigation" at page 346 states: "Fired cases are less often encountered in criminal investigation than are bullets, but when found they are usually of greater significance because they receive at least as clear markings as do bullets, have a greater variety of such markings, and are not ordinarily damaged in firing...............................................
 	ANALYSIS
The questions which may be asked as a result of finding such materials are similar to those that require answers when only bullets are located.	ANALYSIS
In the ordinary case, quite definite answers can be given.	ANALYSIS
This is true both of shotgun shells and of cartridge cases from pistols, revolvers, and rifles........................... ..	ANALYSIS
In general, it is possible to identify a certain firearm as having fired a particular shell or cartridge.	ANALYSIS
It is often possible to identify the type or make of gun' which fired it, though in many instances this must be tentative or probable identification only."	ANALYSIS
`                      193	ANALYSIS
After :dealing with the marks left by breech-block, firing pin impressions, marks from extractors and ejectors, marks due to expansion, magazine marks and loading mechanism marks,he states, "Summarizing, the cartridge or shell case us. ally carries markings which are quite distinctive of the gun in which the charge is fired, and can be used for positive identification of the latter.	ANALYSIS
Those marks arise from a variety of contacts with various parts of the gun, an analysis of which is useful in, determining the type of weapon in case no suspected gun is available ......................	ANALYSIS
Thus, the recovered shell or cartridge case is one of the most useful types of physical evidence which can be found in shooting cases."	ANALYSIS

Soderman and O'Connel in their book "Modern Criminal Investigation" also deal with the subject and they refer to the marks from the fire pin, the extractor, the. ejector and the breech-block.	ANALYSIS
After referring to comparison being made of the cartridge or shell fired from a fire-arm for the purpose of test, they state at page 200, If they are in the same position in relation to one another and their general appearance is the same, one may conclude that they have been fired from a pistol of the same make.	ANALYSIS

An absolute conclusion about the origin of the shells, however, can be reached only after a photomicrographic examination of the markings from the breech-block on the rear of the shell.............................
Identification, with the aid of the enlargement, should not prove difficult.	ANALYSIS
The characteristic scratches can be easily seen.	ANALYSIS
A photograph of the incriminating shell and one of a comparison shell should be pasted side by side on cardboard, and the characteristic marks should be recorded with lines and ciphers, following the same method as that used in the' identification of fingerprints."
In Taylor's book on Medical Jurisprudence, Tenth Edition, Vol. 1, at page 459	ANALYSIS
, it is stated, " It is never safe to say that a cartridge case was not fired from a given pistol unless the marks are quite194 different, and a case which bears no marks at all may quite well have been fired from the same pistol as one which leaves well-defined marks.	ANALYSIS
In general, however, though it is unlikely that -all marks will be equally good, it is usually possible to obtain definite information from the marks of the firing-pin, extractor, ejector, or breech- block. on the base or rim, or from grooves or scratches on the surface.	ANALYSIS
In weapons of the same manufacture, the marks are of the same general nature, but in each weapon there are individual differences which usually enable it to be definitely identified."	ANALYSIS

The expert's evidence in this case shows that he had fired four test cartridges from the pistol Ex. III	ANALYSIS
He found the individual characteristics of the chamber to have been impressed upon the test cartridges Exs. 9 and 10 and that exactly identical markings were present on the paper tube of the cartridge Ex. 1.	ANALYSIS
He made microphotographs of some of these individual marks on Exs. 1 and 10.	ANALYSIS
In giving his reasons for his opinion, the fire-arms expert stated that every fire-arm has individual characteristics on its breach face striking pin and chamber.	ANALYSIS
When a cartridge is fired gases. are generated by the combustion of the powder, creating a pressure of 2 to 20 tons per square inch.	ANALYSIS
Under the effect of this pressure the cap and the paper tube of the cartridge cling firmly with the breach face striking pin and chamber and being of a softer matter	ANALYSIS
the individualities of these parts are impressed upon them.	ANALYSIS
By firing a number of test cartridges from a given fire-arm and comparing them under a microscope with the evidence cartridge, it can definitely be stated, if the marks are clear, whether the evidence cartridges had been fired or not from that fire- arm.	ANALYSIS
It seems to us that the fire-arms expert made the necessary tests and was careful -in what he did.	RATIO
There is no good reason for distrusting his opinion.	RATIO
The learned Judges of the High Court examined the micro-photographs in question and were satisfied that there was no ground for distrusting the evidence of the expert.	RATIO
They were accordingly justified in coming to the conclusion that the cartridge Ex. 1, found nor the cot of Dava Ram,was fired from the pistol Ex. III produced by the appellant from his house.	RATIO
There can, therefore, be no room for thinking, in the circumstances established in this case, that any one else other than the appellant might have shot Daya Ram.	RATIO
He was, therefore, rightly convicted for the offence of murder.	RPC

The appeal is accordingly dismissed.	RPC
