IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE FIRST
                       CLASS, SUNDARGARH.	PREAMBLE
DIST: SUNDARGARH	PREAMBLE


At present : Shri Arup Nayak, M.A.LL.B
                J.M.F.C.,Sundargarh.

 GR Case No -212 of 2012
 T.R No:- 568 of 15

Dated this , 24th Day of February, 2016

State.....             .........Prosecution

            -Versus 

Jogeswar Sai Paikara, aged about 30 years,
S/o- Late Mangulusai Paikara,
Vill- Veluan, Fatebahal,
P.S. Tumla, Dist- Jaspur (Chhatisgarh)

                                                  .............Accused

                 Date of Argument : 18.02.2016.
                 Date of Judgment : 24.02.2016.	PREAMBLE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     For the Prosecution: Mrs Tanuja Mohanty, APP, Sundargarh
       For the Defence : Shri S K Purohit and associates, Sundargarh

                Offences	PREAMBLE
U/s. 394 of The Indian Penal Code	PREAMBLE

                                 J U D G M E N T	PREAMBLE
1. The above named accused stands prosecuted U/s. 394 of The Indian Penal Code ( herein after referred to as the IPC) for the purpose of brevity only.	FAC
2. The brief facts of the prosecution is that :- On 22.03.2012 at about 4.45 PM, the complainant Sukumar Panda lodged a written report to the effect that on that day at about 4.00 PM his driver namely Saroj Kumar Kaudi was proceeded towards Kinjirkela by taking his Bolero bearing Registration No. OR 16C 3387.	FAC

On the way in a lonely place near Khaparilate village, three unknown persons suddenly came in front of the vehicle as a result of which, the driver stopped the vehicle at the spot.	FAC
The unknown persons assaulted the driver by keeping him on the point of gun and fled away with the said Bolero.	FAC
Basing on the said report, the OIC Kinjirkela PS registered PS Case No. 13, dated 22.03.2012 U/s 394 IPC read with Section 25/27 Arms Act and took up investigation of the case.	FAC
During the course of investigation , the IO visited the spot, examined the complainant and other witnesses, seized the stolen vehicle from ASI Kutwa OP, seized the R.C book, Insurance policy of the said vehicle, DL of the driver on production and also left the same along with the vehicle in zima by executing zimanama.	FAC
After completion of investigation submitted charge sheet vide No. 08, dated 15.02.2013 U/s. 394 IPC against the accused persons namely Jogeswar Sai Paikara, Deonath Sai Paikara and Ramsingh Sidkar.	FAC

 3. As the accused Ramsingh Sidkar and Deonath Sai Paikara are absconded and their presence could not procured by the court .	FAC
Hence, this case has been split up against the accused Jogeswar Sai Paikra to face his trial in the court of law.	FAC
4. The plea of defense is one of complete denial and of false implication.	FAC

5. In the present case the following points need to be determined ;- Whether on 22.03.2012 at about 4.00 PM near Khaparilate village Dist -Sundargarh, the accused Jogeswar Sai Paikra along with Deonath Sai Paikara and Ramsingh Sidkar;- I) committed robbery of a Bolero bearing Registration No. OR 16C 3387 from the possession of its driver ?
 II) Voluntarily caused hurt to the driver of the above said Bolero for committing robbery and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 394 IPC?	ISSUE

 6. During course of trial, the prosecution site examined 9 witnesses to substantiate it's case.	FAC
P.W.1 is the complainant of the case, P.W.2 Ranjan Kumar Patel is a chance witness, P.W.3 Saroj Kumar Kaudi is the driver of the vehicle, P.Ws 4,5,6,7 and 8 are the seizure witnesses.	FAC

P.W.9 is the IO of this case.	FAC
On the other hand, no evidence has been adduced by the accused on his behalf.	FAC
7. P.W.1, the informant identified the accused and deposed that on 22.03.2012 in between 4.00 PM to 4.30 PM, his driver had gone to Kinjirkela by taking his Bolero.	FAC
On the way near "Athtesha jungle" some people stopped him and when the driver stopped the vehicle those persons assaulted his driver and fled away by taking the vehicle.	FAC
The driver informed him through telephone about the occurrence and after that he went to the spot along with the driver and searched the vehicle.	FAC

On the same day at about 10.00PM, P.W.1 got information that his vehicle was seized by the Kotwa OP, after that he went to the Kotwa OP and acknowledged his vehicle and brought it back.	FAC
P.W.1 lodged an F.I.R regarding this matter, marked vide Ext.1 and also identified his signature on it, marked vide Ext.1/1.
        P.W.2, Ranjan Kumar.	FAC
Patel, the chance witness identified the accused and stated that he is a school teacher and on 22.03.2012 at about 4.00 PM he was returning from his school by his motor cycle.	FAC
On the way near Khapurilata village he found one white color Bolero was standing on the road, two persons were inside the Bolero and the back seated person in the Bolero trying to press the neck of the other person seated in the driver seat by means of a towel.	FAC
There were other two persons urinating by the side of the Bolero.	FAC
By watching him the person seated on the driver seat shouted for help, for which P.W.2 stopped his motor cycle there.	FAC
Thereby, one of the persons urinating outside the Bolero rushed towards him by saying "App Yahan Se Jaiye, nehito hum apko mar denge".	FAC
Out of fear P.W.2 started his vehicle to go, but in the mean time he heard the voice of the person seated in the driver seat for help and found that person running towards him.	FAC
He stopped his vehicle and gave him lift upto Kanakjore village.	FAC
On being asked by P.W.2, that person said that those persons hired the vehicle from Sundargarh but on the way assaulted him and took away his vehicle.	FAC
In presence of P.W.2, that person also contacted to the owner of the vehicle, intimating about the occurrence.	FAC

 P.W.3	FAC
, Saroj Kumar Kaudi, the driver of the vehicle identified the accused and deposed that on 22.03.2012, at about 3.00 PM one person hired his vehicle to Gudiadihi, then they picked up another two persons near the Hospital, Sundargarh and carrying all total three persons P.W.3 proceeded towards Gudiadihi from Sundargarh.	FAC
On the way near the village Khaparilata those persons asked him to stop the vehicle for urinal.	FAC

When he stopped the vehicle two persons went outside the vehicle.	FAC
The accused had seated at his back seat and asked him to drive his vehicle, when the same was objected by P.W.3, the accused started to assault him by means of fist blows.	FAC
After that the other two persons who went outside, came near to him and tried to pull him out of the vehicle.	FAC
P.W.3 further stated that at that very moment a school teacher came to that spot, but the accused persons also threatened him, so he left the spot.	FAC
After some time P.W.3 by making himself free from those persons, came out from that place with the help of that school teacher in his vehicle.	FAC

Thereafter, he intimated the owner of the vehicle about the occurrence	FAC
.P.W.3 further stated that on the very day, Chhatisgarh police called to the owner of the vehicle and informed about the arrest of the accused persons and seizure of the vehicle.	FAC
After that they went to that P.S and recognized the accused persons.	FAC
P.W.3 further deposed that he took the vehicle and the relevant documents by executing the zimanama, marked vide Ext.2 and identified his signature on it, marked vide Ext. 2/1.	FAC
P.W.4, Naiman Soren, the seizure witness stated that, on 22.03.2012, he had been to Kotwa OP alongwith A.S.I, Kinjirkela.	FAC
At Kotwa OP, A.S.I seized the seizure list regarding that vehicle and also seized one F.I.R copy in his presence at Kotwa PS.	FAC
Ext. 3 is the said seizure list and he identified his signature on it, marked vide Ext. 3/1.
 P.W.5, Luis Valrian Kiro, the seizure witness deposed that on 29.11.2012 OIC, Bhagabat Naik seized the F.I.R No.3 of 2012 of Tumula P.S and the property seizure memo of the Bolero Vehicle in his presence.	FAC
Ext.4 is the said seizure list and he identified his signature on it, marked vide Ext. 4/1.
 P.W.6, Parikhit Majhi, the seizure witness deposed that on 23.03.2012, OIC, Bhagabat Naik seized one F.I.R copy and one property seizure memo of the Bolero in his presence of Kotwa PS.	FAC
He identified his signature on the seizure list(Ext.3), marked vide Ext.3/1.	FAC
P.W.6 further deposed that on 25.03.2012, OIC, Bhagabat Naik seized the vehicle documents, Driving License, R.C book and Insurance papers of the Bolero in his presence.	FAC
Ext.5 is the said seizure list and he identified his signature on it, marked vide Ext.5/1.
 	FAC
P.W.7, Pankaj Kumar Mohanta, the seizure witness deposed that on 25.03.2012, the OIC Bhagabat Naik seized the RC book of the Bolero bearing Registration NO. OR 16C 3387, the DL of the driver and Insurance certificate of the vehicle in his presence.	FAC
He identified his signature on the seizure list (Ext.5), marked vide Ext.5/1.
 P.W.8 , Nabin Chadnra Minz the seizure witness deposed that on 29.11.2012 the OIC Bhagabat Naik seized some documents and prepared the seizure list in his presence but due to passage of time he could not recollect the documents which were seized.	FAC
He identified his signature on the seizure list (Ext.4) marked vide Ext.4/2.
 P.W.9, Bhagabat Naik, the IO of the case, deposed that on the day of occurrence he got information from Hari Sankar Singh, the ASI of Kutwa OP, about the recovery of the stolen Bolero bearing Registration No. OR-16C- 3387 and arrest of two accused persons namely Ramsing Sidkara and Deonath Sai Paikrai .	FAC
On 23-03.2012, the I.O examined the ASI, Kotwa P.S and seized one FIR copy and xerox copy of the property seizure memo of the said vehicle and prepared the seizure list marked vide Ext.3 and identified his signature, vide Ext.3/3.	FAC
On 25.03.2012 the IO seized RC book , Insurance policy of the vehicle, DL of Saroj Kumar Kaudi (the driver of the vehicle) on production and prepared the seizure list marked vide Ext.5 and identified his signature vide Ext.5/3.	FAC
On 29.11.2012 he received information about the arrest of the accused Jogeswar Sai paikrai in another case under Tumula PS.	FAC
The IO seized FIR copy of Tumula PS Case No. 03/2012, arrest memo, copy of property memo and prepared the seizure list (Ext.4) and identified his signature on it, marked vide Ext.4/3.	FAC

 8.         	ANALYSIS
In the instant case at hand, the accused is implicated for the offense U/s. 394 of I.P.C.	ANALYSIS
In order to attract the offence U/s.394, there must be robbery, either committed or attempted and for that purpose the accused must have voluntarily caused hurt.	ANALYSIS
By taking into consideration the materials available on record and as per the allegations of prosecution the offense of Robbery has been committed in broad day light in the form of Extortion.	ANALYSIS
The allegation of the prosecution is that on 22.03.2012, in between 4.00 PM to 4.30 PM, the accused along with his two other companion committed robbery of one Bolero by assaulting the driver of the complainant.	ANALYSIS
So this allegation attracts the offense U/s.394 of I.P.C.
 9.         	ANALYSIS
In a whole, coming to the discussion, P.W.1 the owner of the vehicle is the complainant of this case and lodged the F.I.R at Kinjirikela P.S at 4.45 Pm.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 stated that he got telephonic information from his driver about the occurrence and after that he went to the Kinjirikela PS and lodged FIR.	ANALYSIS
P.W.3, the driver of the vehicle stated that he had been assaulted by the accused persons and after that they fled away by taking his Bolero, near village khaparilata.	ANALYSIS
He took the help of a school teacher from the spot and after that he gave telephonic information to the owner of the vehicle in presence of that person.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2, the school teacher deposed that when he was returning from his school at about 4.00 PM, he found the driver (P.W.3) was assaulted by the accused persons.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2 gave lift to the driver of the Bolero from that spot and left him at Kanakajore village.	ANALYSIS
P.W.3 further deposed that the driver informed the owner telephonically in his presence about the occurrence.	ANALYSIS
P.W.9, the I.O stated that on the day of occurrence during investigation, he got telephonic information from the A.S.I, Kotwa OP, that the said vehicle has been seized, two of the accused persons namely Ramsingh Sidkar and Deonath Sai Paikara were arrested and other accused namely Jogeswar Sai Paikara has been absconded.	ANALYSIS
On the next day I.e on 23.03.2012 the I.O seized the said vehicle from the A.S.I, Kotwa OP in presence of P.W.4 and P.W.6, the seizure witnesses.	ANALYSIS
P.W.4 and P.W.6 also proved the said seizure by saying that the seizure has been made in their presence by the I.O. The I.O left the vehicle in zima of the driver (P.W.2) by verifying the relevant documents and by execution of zimanama, marked vide. Ext. 2.	ANALYSIS
From the above discussion now it can be safely conclude that the Bolero has been robbed near village Khaparilata, from the possession of it's driver and recovered at Kotwa P.S from the possession of the accused persons.	ANALYSIS

 10.  From the allegations and evidences deposed by the prosecution witnesses, it comes to light that the driver of the Bolero has been assaulted by the accused persons in a lonely place on the road near village khaparilata, which has not been seen by any one except a chance witness, who is a school teacher and was returning from his school by that way and time.	ANALYSIS
Here the offense of Robbery has been committed in the form of extortion, which ultimately implies, the possessor of the property has the knowledge of the incident and he left the property in fear of injury.	ANALYSIS
So, it can be safely presume that the driver and the school teacher are the sole eye witnesses in this case to bring the accused into the clutches of law.	ANALYSIS
Now the question is whether this is the said accused who has committed the offense of robbery in the form of Extortion with the help of other two co-accused.	ANALYSIS

 11.  During the course of argument, the Ld defense counsel raised his contentions regarding the time of occurrence and filing of F.I.R at Kinjirikela P.S by the informant, who was at Sundargarh at the time of occurrence.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Kinjirikela P.S is about 30 Kms distance from Sundargarh, which is highly improbable.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 The Ld. Defense counsel put forth another contention regarding conduct of T.I Parade and to strengthen his contention, the Ld. Defense counsel placed reliance on the decision laid down in AIR 1998 SUPREME COURT 1922(Shaikh Umar Ahmed Shaikh and another Vrs.
State of Maharastra) and AIR 1982 SUPREME COURT 839( Mohanlal Gangaram Gehani Vrs. State of Maharastra).	ARG_RESPONDENT
In the case of Shaikh Umar Ahmed Shaikh, there was an attack by a mob, causing death of a constable and there was requirement of T.I parade of 5 to 6 persons out of a mob.	ANALYSIS
So far as the case of Mohanlal Gangaram Gehani is concerned, there was presence of dying declaration and the recorder of the dying declaration made contradictory statement and T.I parade has not been conducted.	ANALYSIS
So far as both the cases are concerned, the facts and circumstances of both the cases are different in relation to the present case at hand.	ANALYSIS
Dealing with the other contention, the court is of the view that, when occurrence has been sufficiently proved, the time regarding the commission of offense and filing of FIR in the present facts and circumstance is immaterial.	ANALYSIS

 12.  Now coming to the point for discussion about the involvement of the accused in the present case.	ANALYSIS
In this case prosecution has not examined the A.S.I of Kotwa P.S, who has seized the vehicle from the possession of the Co-accused.	ANALYSIS
Test Identification parade has not been conducted by the I.O.	ANALYSIS
In absence of such evidences, available evidences may be taken into consideration for conclusion.	ANALYSIS
P.W.9, the I.O stated that he got information from the A.S.I, Kotwa PS, that two accused persons Ramsingh Sidkar and Deonath Sai Paikara were arrested from the involved vehicle and one accused namely Jogeswar Sai Paikara has absconded.	ANALYSIS
On 29.11.2012 the I.O got information about the arrest of Jogeswar Sai Paikara in Tumla P.S case no. 3/12 and taken him on remand on 18.12.2012.	ANALYSIS
P.W.3, the driver of the vehicle clearly identified the accused and stated that the accused had been seated in his back seat.	ANALYSIS

 At the place of occurrence, accused asked him to drive, when he objected the accused assaulted him by means of fist blows.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2, the chance witness, during his examination identified the accused three times.	ANALYSIS
In Para -1 , he stated that "I do not know the name of the accused standing in the dock, but it seems as if I know him".	ANALYSIS
In para-9 of his cross- examination, he stated that, "the accused standing in the dock was present on the spot on the day of occurrence, but I can not say what he was doing there".	ANALYSIS
In Para-16 of his cross-examination, he stated that "this accused standing in the dock had threatened me in hindi language".	ANALYSIS
The presence of accused on the spot of occurrence is affirmed by both P.W.2 and P.W.3.	ANALYSIS
However, the statement of P.W.2 and P.W.3 are contradictory about the overt act done by the accused at the place of occurrence.	ANALYSIS
Both P.W.2 and P.W.3 deposed in a consistent manner corroborating their previous statements and nothing could have brought from their mouth during their cross examination , which put questions on their credibility.	ANALYSIS
P.W.3 is the victim of the case, he spent a long time with the accused persons in comparison to P.W.2.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2 is a chance witness, who has seen two persons inside the vehicle and two persons out side.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2 left the spot immediately after threatening by one of the accused person.	ANALYSIS
The fact cannot be ignored that in ordinary course, a person tends to remember things more particularly which he himself had undergone in comparison to others.	ANALYSIS
The occurrence took place on 22.03.2012 and P.W.2 has examined on 16.07.2013.	ANALYSIS
Human memory is subject to deterioration with passage of time.	ANALYSIS
The presence of accused on the spot of occurrence is not disputed by both of the eye witnesses.	ANALYSIS
So it can be safely conclude with the involvement of the accused in the alleged crime/offense.	ANALYSIS
This is an offense, which comes under the purview of Joint liability.	ANALYSIS
As per the principle of joint liability, where one or more persons having similar intention to commit any crime, commits any such crime, then each of such persons is liable for that offense jointly and severally, as if it was done by him alone.	ANALYSIS
Mere presence of an accused, at the scene of the occurrence, having the intention to commit such crime/offense is sufficient to draw inference against him.	ANALYSIS
Overt act is not necessary.	ANALYSIS
By taking into consideration of the evidences, adduced by PW.2 and P.W.3, the eye witnesses, the involvement of the accused in the present case is sufficiently proved.	ANALYSIS
Thus this court is of the view that the prosecution has successfully established the guilt of accused U/s 394 of IPC beyond all reasonable doubt.	ANALYSIS

 14.  On the basis of the above analysis this court is of the conclusion that the prosecution has successfully established the case against the accused U/s. 394 IPC beyond all reasonable doubt .	RATIO
The accused is found guilty for offense U/s. 394 IPC and convicted thereof u/s 248(2) Cr.P.C.	RPC

 Pronounced this judgment in the open court in the presence of accused today this 24th day of February, 2016 under my signature and seal of the court.	NONE

 J.M.F.C, Sundargarh	NONE
 Committing robbery in the form of extortion is a grievous offence in nature	RATIO
. Hence having regard to the facts and allegations of the case, this court is of the view that, if such type of convicts are released under the beneficial provisions of Probation of offenders Act, it would send a wrong message to the society.	RATIO
Hence, this court is not inclined to extend any of the beneficial provisions under Probation of offenders Act to the convicts.	RATIO
J.M.F.C., Sundargarh HEARING ON THE QUESTION OF SENTENCE Heard the convict as well as Learned counsel for the convict and Learned APP for the state.	NONE
The convict and the Learned Defence counsel submitted that being a first time offender, lenient view should be taken while imposing sentence.	ARG_PETITIONER
On the other hand, the counsel for the state submitted that the convict has committed grievous offense, hence prayed for exemplary punishment.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Taking into consideration of the circumstances and manner of the commission of the offense, the convict namely Jogeswar Sai Paikara sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for three years and to pay fine of Rs.10,000/- (Ten thousand) and in default, he shall further undergo Simple Imprisonment for (06) six months.	RPC

 The period of detention undergone, if any, by the convict as U.T.P.
be set-off U/s-428 of Cr.P.C against the sentence of imprisonment.	RPC
Pronounced this sentence in the open court in the presence of accused today this 24th day of February, 2016 under my signature and seal of the court.	NONE

 J.M.F.C., Sundargarh Typed to my dictation and corrected by me JM.F.C.,Sundargarh	NONE
Supply free copy of this judgment to the convict.	NONE

 JMFC, Sundargarh.	NONE
Typed and corrected by me JMFC, Sundargarh.	NONE
LIST OF PROSECUTION WITNESSES.	NONE
P.W.1.  Sukumar Panda P.W.2   	NONE
Ranjan Kumar Patel P.W.3   Saroj Kumar Kaudi P.W.4   Naiman Surin P.W.5	NONE
Luis Valerian Kiro P.W.6   Parikhita Majhi P.W.7   Pankaj Kumar Mahanto P.W.8	NONE
  Nabin Chandra Minz P.W.9   Bhagabat Naik LIST OF DEFENCE WITNESSES NIL LIST OF EXHIBITS MARKED ON BEHALF OF PROSECUTION Ext.1    FIR Ext.1/1  Signature of P.W.1 Ext.1/2  Signature of P.W.9 Ext.1/3  Formal FIR Ext.1/4  Signature of P.W.9 on Ext.1/3 Ext.2    Zimanama Ext.2/1  Signature of P.W.3 on Ext.2 Ext.2/2  Signature of P.W.9 on Ext.2 Ext.3    Seizure list Ext.3/1  Signature of P.W.4 on Ext.3 Ext.3/2  Signature of P.W.6 on Ext.3.	NONE

 Ext.3/3  Signature of P.W.4 on Ext.3 Ext.4    Seizure list Ext.4/1  Signature of P.W.5 Ext.4/2  Signature of P.W.8 on Ext.4 Ext.5    Seizure list Ext.5/1  Signature of P.W.6 Ext.5/2  Signature of P.W.7 on Ext.5 Ext.5/3  Signature of P.W.9 on Ext.5 Ext.6    	NONE
Spot Map Ext.6/1  Signature of P.W.9 on Ext.6 LIST OF EXHIBITS MARKED ON BEHALF OF DEFENCE NIL J.M.F.C.,Sundargarh.	NONE
