IN THE COURT OF THE SUB DIVISIONAL JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
                                    	PREAMBLE
SUNDARGARH.	PREAMBLE
PRESENT:	PREAMBLE
DISTRICT:	PREAMBLE
SUNDARGARH.	PREAMBLE
Shri Hara Prasad Padhy,LL.B,
                  S.D.J.M.,Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE
2(a) CC CASE No. 249 of 2011	PREAMBLE

                          Trial No. 120 of 2012

                  Date of argument : 25.08.2016	PREAMBLE
Date of Judgment : 08.09.2016

State of Odisha.	PREAMBLE
         .........	PREAMBLE
             Prosecution.	PREAMBLE

                  -vrs.-

1	PREAMBLE
. Kalabati Sa, aged about 30 years,	PREAMBLE
Wife of Kamaru Sa, Resident of Village-
        Subdega( Bakupada), PS. Talsara,
        District.	PREAMBLE
Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE
.........	PREAMBLE
Accused person.	PREAMBLE


          Offence U/s.47(a)(i) Bihar & Orissa Excise Act..	PREAMBLE
Counsel for the State : Sri Debasish Shit, APP	PREAMBLE
Counsel for the Defence : Sri N.K.Patel & associates, Advocate.	PREAMBLE


                  J U D G M E N T	PREAMBLE
1.  Accused person stands charged for the offence U/s. 47(a) (i) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act for illegal possession of I.D. Liquor.	FAC

 2.  The story of the prosecution in brief is that on 07.12.2011 at about 10.50 a.m., while the SI of Excise, EI & EB, Unit , Sambalpur was performing patrolling duty along with staff at Subdega ( Bakupada) village area noticed that the accused Kalabati Sa was going on the road by carrying one plastic jerry cane in her hand.	FAC
On suspicion the SI of Excise detained her on the road and directed the lady constable for search and on search she recovered five litres of ID liquor containing in the said plastic jerry cane from the possession of the accused in presence of the witnesses.	FAC
Thereafter he conducted blue litmus test, smell test, hydrometer test and from above tests and his prolonged service experience, he ascertained that the seized article was I.D. liquor.	FAC

 Thereafter, he collected sample, sent the same for chemical examination and after completion of his inquiry submitted final PR against the accused person U/s. 47(a)(i) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act suggesting his trial.	FAC
3.            	FAC
The plea of the accused person is one of complete denial and false implication only for statistical purpose.	FAC
4.            	ISSUE
The points for determination of this case are as follows: i.	ISSUE
Whether on 07.12.2011 at about 9.45 a.m., on the road of village Subdega (Bakupada), the SI of Excise seized five litres of ID liquor kept in a plastic jerry cane for the purpose of selling without any authority?	ISSUE
ii. Whether on the same date, time and place the said five litres of ID liquor has been seized from your exclusive and conscious possession ?	ISSUE

 iii. Whether the seized article is I.D. liquor or not?	ISSUE

 5.            To prove its case, prosecution has examined only three witnesses.	NONE
Out of whom P.W. 3 is the SI of Excise, EI & EB, Sambalpur and P.W. 1 is the accompanying Excise constable.	NONE
Pw 2 is the cited independent seizure witness to the alleged occurrence.	NONE
Prosecution proved certain documents marked as Ext. 1 & Ext. 2	NONE
. On the other hand, no oral or documentary evidence adduced on behalf of accused person in his defence.	ANALYSIS

 6.  On analysis of the evidence on record P.W. 3 the SI of Excise deposed that on 07.12.2011, while he was performing patrolling duty at Subdega (Bakupada) area and found that the accused was coming on the road by holding a plastic jerry cane in her hand, so on suspicion he detained the accused Kalabati Sa and directed the lady constable for search and on search, she recovered five litres of ID liquor containing in the plastic jerry cane from the possession of the accused.	FAC
According to this witness he had conducted blue litmus paper test which turned into red in colour, conducted hydrometer test and thereafter prepared the seizure list.	FAC
He further deposed that he collected the sample and sent the same for chemical examination.	FAC
Another official witness PW 1 (Excise constable) like wise supported the version of P.W 3 in respect of patrolling and seizure of the liquor from the possession of the accused.	FAC
Specific version of both the witnesses is that seizure was conducted by the SI of Excise in presence of the witnesses.	FAC
Hence, it is necessary to testify the testimony of the official witnesses from independent source for the sake of corroboration.	FAC
P.W. 2, the independent seizure witness in evidence did not support the version of P.W.3 at all in respect of factum of seizure.	FAC

 According to him nothing was seized in his presence by any Excise staff and he has put his thumb impression on a paper.	FAC
Hence there is discrepancy between the testimony of independent seizure witness and the official witnesses.	ANALYSIS

 7.  To prove an offence U/s.47(a)(i) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act, it is the bounden duty of prosecution to establish that the seizure was from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
But in this case the seizure witness did not support the factum of seizure at all.	ANALYSIS
Further the SI of Excise PW 3 in cross-examination admitted that he had not known the accused prior to the incident.	ANALYSIS
The spot is a village road and busy one.	ANALYSIS

 He further deposed that he has not produced the seized articles before the court.	ANALYSIS
Though the independent corroboration is not the rule but as the place of seizure is a public place, examination of independent witness is necessary to make the judgment free from any criticism.	ANALYSIS
The plea of the defence is that a false case has been foisted against her only for statistical purpose.	ARG_RESPONDENT
There is no material on record to show the exact place of seizure as no sketch map is prepared or proved by the prosecution in this case to establish that the seizure was from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	ARG_RESPONDENT
More so the SI of Excise neither produced the seized liquor before the court nor sent the same for chemical examination.	ARG_RESPONDENT

 Further, independent seizure witness did not support the factum of seizure.	ARG_RESPONDENT
In such premises I hold that the prosecution failed to prove the factum of seizure from the possession of the accused for want of independent corroboration.	ANALYSIS
Hence the prosecution failed to establish the seizure from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS

 8. With regard to nature of seized article whether it is liquor or not.	ANALYSIS

 P.W. 3 stated that the seized article is I.D. liquor.	ANALYSIS
PW 3 has filed the xerox copy of distillery training certificate so also xerox copy of experience certificate.	ANALYSIS
But the learned defence counsel vehemently argued that the SI of Excise has not produced his original certificate.	ANALYSIS
Further this witness has admittedly stated in cross-examination that he has not produced the seized articles before the court.	ANALYSIS
He has also not seized any document regarding identity of the accused.	ANALYSIS
He has also not proved the chemical examination report and has also not cited the Scientific officer as a witness in this case.	ANALYSIS
Hence, I hold that prosecution failed to establish that the seized article is I.D. Liquor.	ANALYSIS
9.              In view of the whole discussions in foregoing paragraphs, since the prosecution failed to establish that the seizure is from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused, I hold that prosecution failed to establish the charge leveled against the accused person for commission of offence U/s.47(a)(i) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act beyond all reasonable doubt.	RATIO
Hence, I acquit her therefrom under the provisions of Sec.248(1) Cr.P.C.	RPC
She be set at liberty and discharged from her bail bond.	RPC
Enter the case as mistake of fact.	RPC

 The seized liquor kept at Excise Malkhana, be destroyed after four months expiry of appeal period, if no appeal is preferred and in case of appeal subject to the orders of the appellate court.	RPC

 S.D.J.M.,Sundargarh.
                                                                       08.09.2016.	NONE
The judgment is transcribed and typed to my dictation, corrected by me and pronounced in the open court on this the 08th day of September, 2016 and given under my hand and seal of the court.
 S.D.J.M. Sundargarh.
 List	NONE
of P.Ws.	NONE
examined: P.W. 1	NONE
Gayatri Sa P.W. 2          	NONE
Bhagirathi Sa P.W.3.	NONE
Debasish Patel	NONE
List of D.Ws examined: N i l.
 List of Exts.marked for the complnt.
 Ext.1           	NONE
Seizure list .
 Ext.1/1         Signature of P.W 1.
 Ext.1/2         Signature of P.W 3.
 Ext.1/3         	NONE
Tested	NONE
blue litmus paper Ext.2.	NONE
Hydrometer test.
 Ext.2/1         Signature of PW 3.
 Ext.3           	NONE
Xerox copy of distillery training Ext.4           	NONE
Xerox attested copy of experience certificate.	NONE
List of Exts.marked for the defence: N i l.
 S.D.J.M., Sundargarh.	NONE
