$~10
*    IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI

+      CS(OS) 153/2012

       NEW DELHI TELEVISION LIMITED                  ..... Plaintiff
                    Through:	PREAMBLE
Mr. Abhinav Vasisht, Sr. Adv.	PREAMBLE
with
                              	PREAMBLE
Mr. Sarojanand Jha, Ms. Naina Dubey
                              and Ms. Priya, Advs.

                                     Versus
       S.K. SRIVASTAVA	PREAMBLE
..... Defendant
                     Through:           Mr. Om Prakash and Mr. Pradeep
                                        Kumar Tripathi,	PREAMBLE
Advs.
                                        Ms. Sonali Negi, Adv. for Mr. Vishnu	PREAMBLE

                                        Sharma, Adv. for applicant in IA	PREAMBLE

                                        No.15018/2015	PREAMBLE
.
CORAM:	PREAMBLE

HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW
                                   ORDER	PREAMBLE

%                                 31.01.2018 IA No.1195/2012 (of plaintiff u/O XXXIX R-1&2 CPC)	NONE
 1.     In this suit for recovery of damages (the senior counsel for the plaintiff states, for defamation) and for permanent injunction restraining the defendant from further publishing or causing to be published the defamatory contents with respect to the plaintiff, vide ex-parte ad-interim order dated 20th January, 2012 (which continues to be in force), the defendant was restrained from publishing/circulating any defamatory material, internet publication and material as contained in the application dated 24 th November, 2011 filed by the defendant before the Special Judge, New Delhi.	FAC

 2.     The senior counsel for the plaintiff has argued that (i) the defendant, at the time of filing of the suit, was working in the Income Tax Department (the counsel for the defendant states that the defendant is still working in the Income Tax Department); (ii) the defendant filed an application before the Court of Sh. O.P. Saini, Special Judge, containing defamatory content with respect to the plaintiff; (iii) the said application was dismissed; (iv) the defendant upholded the said application and/or contents thereof on the internet and also handed over copies of the same to various other news channels and news agencies.	ARG_PETITIONER

3.     I have asked the senior counsel for the plaintiff, how there can be defamation with respect to what is stated in the course of legal proceedings and whether not there is an absolute privilege in such matter.	ISSUE

4.     The senior counsel for the plaintiff states that the defendant has also uploaded the application on the internet.	ARG_PETITIONER
5.     	ISSUE
I have further enquired from the senior counsel for the plaintiff, whether not in the concept of ‘Open Court’, the loading of the application as it is on the internet, without anything further, would also only be dissemination of what is stated/pleaded in the Court and covered by the concept of ‘Open Court’.	ISSUE

6.     The senior counsel for the plaintiff, on specific query, confirms that the defendant, outside the Court, has only circulated the application filed before the Court as it is and nothing more.	ARG_PETITIONER
7.     	ARG_PETITIONER
At this stage, the senior counsel for the plaintiff states that the defendant has also written and published articles with the same contents as the application.	ARG_PETITIONER

8.     These questions are left open for consideration at appropriate stage.	ANALYSIS

9.     I have also asked the senior counsel for the plaintiff, that nearly six years having lapsed since the institution of the suit, what is the last allegedly defamatory act done by the defendant.	ISSUE
10.    	ARG_PETITIONER
The senior counsel for the plaintiff states that the plaintiff is seeking a direction at this stage for removal of whatsoever was earlier uploaded by the defendant on the internet.	ARG_PETITIONER
11.    	ANALYSIS
Such a direction can be issued only at the final stage.	ANALYSIS
12.    	RPC
Today, the application is disposed of by confirming the interim order dated 20th January, 2012 but by clarifying that the same will not come in the way of the defendant stating anything before any legal fora.	RPC

IA No.765/2014 (of plaintiff u/O XXXIX R-2A CPC)	NONE
13.    The senior counsel for the plaintiff states that the defendant, inspite of the order dated 20th January, 2012, filed an application before the Disputes Resolution Panel under the Income Tax Act, 1961, with the same allegations as made in the application before Sh. O.P. Saini, Special Judge and which application stood dismissed.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is further contended that a writ petition filed by defendant on the same allegations also stood dismissed prior thereto.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is yet further argued, that the Disputes Resolution Panel also stated that it is not a judicial forum and dismissed the application filed by the defendant before it.	ARG_PETITIONER

14.    The order dated 20th January, 2012 does not restrain the defendant from approaching other legal fora.	ANALYSIS
Even otherwise, for approaching other legal fora, there can be no violation of the interim injunction.	ANALYSIS
Moreover, the injunction granted was conditional in the sense that the defendant was restrained from publishing/circulating defamatory material.	ANALYSIS
It is still to be determined in trial, whether the material published is defamatory or not.	ANALYSIS

15.    There is no merit in the application.	RATIO

16.    Dismissed.	RPC

IA No.4792/2014 (of defendant u/O VI R-17 CPC)	NONE
 17.    The senior counsel for the plaintiff, without prejudice to the rights and contentions of the plaintiff, has no objection to the application being allowed.
18.    Issues have not been framed in the suit as yet.	FAC
The amendments sought are found to be necessary for determining the controversy in the suit.	RATIO

19.    Allowed and disposed of.	RPC

IA No.4797/2014 (of defendant u/O VIII R-3 CPC)	NONE
 20.    The additional documents sought to be filed are in support of the defence sought to be taken by way of amendment and are allowed.	RATIO

21.    The application is disposed of.	RPC

IA No.15018/2015 (of Mr. S. Gurumurthy u/O I R-10 CPC)	NONE
22.    Ms. Sonali Negi, Advocate appears for the applicant and states that Mr.
Vishnu Sharma, Advocate for the applicant is not available and she does not know anything about the case.	FAC

23.    Dismissed for non-prosecution.	RPC

CS(OS) No.153/2012 24.	NONE
    No amended written statement is stated to have been filed with the application for amendment which has been allowed as aforesaid.	FAC

25.    The same be filed on or before 7th February, 2018 with advance copy to the counsel for the plaintiff.	RPC
If the amended written statement is not so filed, the right of the defendant to file amended written statement shall stand closed.	RPC

26.    Replication thereto, if any be filed within thirty days from the date of receipt of advance copy thereof.	RPC

27.    The parties to file affidavits of admission/denial of each other’s documents before the next date of hearing.	RPC

28.    The plaintiff is permitted to file additional documents along with its replication in response to the additional documents filed by the defendant.	RPC

29.    List for framing of issues, if any on 27th July, 2018.	RPC

 RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW, J.
JANUARY 31, 2018 ‘bs’	NONE
