IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU     DATED THIS THE 13TH DAY OF OCTOBER, 2020                                   BEFORE	PREAMBLE
            THE HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE B.A.PATIL              CRIMINAL PETITION No.4694/2020	PREAMBLE
BETWEEN:	PREAMBLE
Sri.Khandya Praveen	PREAMBLE
...Petitioner@ Praveen @ H.K. Praveen KumarS/o KeshavamurthyAged about 39 years,	PREAMBLE
R/o Khandya	PREAMBLE
Village & PostChikkamagaluru Taluk	PREAMBLE
 577 101.	PREAMBLE
(By Sri.Hashmath Pasha, Sr.Counselfor Sri.Suyog Herele E., Advocate)	PREAMBLE
AND:The State of Karnataka,Through Basavanahalli PoliceStation, Rep. by its State Public Prosecutor,High Court Building,High Court of Karnataka,Bengaluru- 560 001.	PREAMBLE
...Respondent(By Sri.Mahesh Shetty, HCGP)        This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 ofCr.P.C praying to enlarge the petitioner on bail in CrimeNo.132/2016 registered by Basavanahalli Police Station,Chikkamagaluru, for the offence P/U/S. 364-A, 395, 386,342, 324, 506 and 120-B r/w Section 149 of IPC.        	PREAMBLE
This Criminal Petition having been heard andreserved on 08.10.2020 coming on for pronouncement ofOrders `through Video Conference' this day, the Courtmade the following:-                                    O R D E R        	PREAMBLE
This petition has been filed by the petitioner-accused No.4 under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. praying to release him on regular bail in Crime No.132/2016 of Basavanahalli Police Station (S.C.No.34/2018 pending on the file of the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Chikkamagaluru), for the offences punishable under Sections 364A, 395, 386, 324, 342, 506 and 120B r/w Section 149 of Indian Penal Code.	FAC
 2. I have heard the learned Senior Counsel Sri.Hashmath Pasha virtually for the petitioner-accused No.4 and also the learned High Court Government Pleader Sri.Mahesh Shetty for the respondent-State.	NONE
 This case has been heard and reserved on 8.10.2020 for orders and today the order has been pronounced. 3.	FAC
The gist of the complaint is that on 28.06.2016 at about 2.00 a.m., the complainant was about to open the gate of his house to park his vehicle.	FAC
At that time, one Abhijith and six others came in a black Scorpio vehicle bearing Regn.No.KA-20/N-3659 and surrounded and thereafter kidnapped him in their car and he was also threatened not to shout and if he shouts, they will kill him.	FAC
It is further alleged that the persons who were there in the car were holding deadly weapons and they also forcibly took his car key and out of them two persons took away the car and they also switched off his mobile and thereafter started proceeding to Bengaluru and thereafter took him to a go-down at Bengaluru and tied him and wrongfully confined.	FAC
It is further alleged that subsequently, one Naveen Shetty assaulted on the head and face of the complainant and threatened him that he should pay Rs.25 lakhs to a person whom they are going to name and if he is not going to pay, they will take away his life.	FAC
When the complainant questioned him as to why he should pay so much of money, then Naveen Shetty told that he has cheated Rs.20 laksh to Nataraj Kalmane Chit Fund in a cricket betting and as such he has to pay the said amount.	FAC
It is further alleged that thereafter they shifted the complainant to another place, where accused No.4  petitioner along with Naveen Shetty came and they demanded Rs.10 lakhs.	FAC
They also gave a mobile handset and he telephoned to one Shiva to arrange for Rs.10 lakhs.	FAC
But the said Shiva told that he has got only Rs.2,00,000/- and the complainant told about his kidnap and requested him to arrange for money and the said Shiva agreed to arrange Rs.10 lakhs with his friends and thereafter he telephoned to Shiva and told him to pay the same to one Pavan.	FAC
He further told that the said Naveen Shetty has to be paid the said amount.	FAC
He also gave a mobile number 9480805120, but the said mobile number belongs to Dy.S.P. and he told to bring the said amount near the Police Quarters where he handed over Rs.10 lakhs at about 10.15 p.m.	FAC
On the basis of the complaint, a case was registered.	FAC
4. It is the contention of the learned Senior Counsel that, the petitioner-accused approached this Court for grant of bail in Criminal Petition No.6790/2018 on 22.10.2018, but the same came to be dismissed and subsequently he has also filed a Criminal Petition No.9456/2018.	FAC
This Court by order dated 11.2.2019 rejected the bail application.	FAC
Being aggrieved by the said order, the petitioner-accused No.4 approached the Hon'ble Apex Court in Special Leave to Appeal (Criminal No.2688/2019) and the same came to be dismissed on 2.4.2019.	FAC
Subsequently, another Criminal Petition No.1945/2020 was filed before this Court.	FAC
This Court by order dated 26.5.2020 dismissed the petition, however liberty has been given to the petitioner-accused to move this Court for bail after examination of the complainant.	FAC
Petitioner-accused No.4 being aggrieved by the said order, approached the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Special Leave to appeal (Criminal No.3211/2020).	FAC
The same came to be dismissed on 31.7.2020 by confirming the order of this Court.	FAC
But however, the Hon'ble Apex Court directed the trial Court to examine the complainant within two months from that date with a compliance report.	RLC
It is his further submission that in pursuance of the direction issued by the Hon'ble Apex Court, complainant has been got examined before the trial Court as PW1 on 28.8.2020 and on subsequent dates.	FAC
Now his examination-in-chief and cross-examination has been completed.	FAC
In pursuance of the order of this Court and the Hon'ble Apex Court, now he is reviving the right to bail.	FAC
It is his further submission that the transactions which have been taken place is in between the other accused persons and complainant.	ARG_PETITIONER
No serious overt acts have been alleged as against petitioner- accused No.4.	FAC
It is his further submission that already the other accused persons have been granted bail and on the ground of parity, the petitioner-accused is also entitled to be released on bail.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is his further submission that this petitioner-accused has not approached directly the complainant and asked about the ransom to be paid to him, on the contrary the amount has been paid to the accused No.5 the police official who is now deceased.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is his further submission that in the evidence of PW1 there is nothing to suggest that it is the petitioner-accused demanded any amount from him or from his family members and he has been detained.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is his further submission that in the evidence of PW1 nowhere he has expressed that the petitioner-accused was having an intention to take away the life of the complainant victim.	ARG_PETITIONER
In that light, it is his submissions that the provisions of Section 364A of IPC will not attract to the facts of the case on hand.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is his further submission that in order to attract the provisions of Section 364A of IPC, a person must be abducted and he should be detained and there must be threat to cause the death or such bodily injuries or by virtue of conduct gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that such person may be put to death or hurt or causes hurt or death to such person to compel him to do some act or to pay a ransom.	ARG_PETITIONER
But on perusal of the evidence of the complainant- PW1, nowhere he has deposed that there was threat to the life of the complainant.	FAC
It is his further submission that, on perusal of the evidence at the most without admitting the act of the petitioner-accused No.4, may attract the provisions of Sections 384 or 392 of IPC, which are not considered to be serious in the eye of law.	FAC
It is his further submission that already the complainant has been got examined before the trial Court and fully cross examined.	ARG_PETITIONER
Under such circumstances, there is no question of tampering of the evidence of the complainant.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is further submitted that more than two years he is in custody, the trial may take some more time.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is further submitted that while dealing with bail application, delay in concluding the trial has to be taken into consideration.	ARG_PETITIONER
In order to support his said contention he relied on the decision in the case of State of Kerala Vs. Raneef reported in (2011) 1 SCC 784.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is further submitted that now pandemic disease Covid-19 is there to keep him in judicial custody.	ARG_PETITIONER
He is ready to abide by the conditions that may be imposed by this Court and ready to offer the sureties.	ARG_PETITIONER
On these grounds he prayed to allow the petition and to release the petitioner-accused No.4 on bail.	ARG_PETITIONER
 5. Per contra, the learned High Court Government Pleader vehemently argued and submitted that earlier this Court has granted anticipatory bail to the petitioner- accused No.4, but the same has been challenged before the Hon'ble Apex Court and the bail granted has been cancelled by holding that there is a prima facie material as against the petitioner-accused having involved in a serious offence which is punishable with death or imprisonment for life.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is his further submission that the charge sheet material clearly goes to show that petitioner-accused No.4 is the main accused and at his instance the complainant was kidnapped and amount of Rs.10 Lakhs has been paid to Dy.S.P. accused No.5 and the other accused persons have also monitored and kidnapped the complainant.	ARG_RESPONDENT
There is prima facie material as against the petitioner- accused for having involved in the alleged crime.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is his further submission that if the petitioner-accused is enlarged on bail, he may tamper with the remaining prosecution evidence, he may abscond and may not be available for the trial.	ARG_RESPONDENT
On these grounds he prayed to dismiss the petition.	ARG_RESPONDENT
 6. I have carefully and cautiously gone through the submissions made by the learned counsel appearing for the parties and perused the records.	NONE
 7. It is not in dispute that the petitioner-accused No.4 has approached this Court three times in Criminal Petition Nos.6790/2018, 9456/2018 and 1945/2020.	ANALYSIS
This Court after considering the case on merits dismissed the petition.	ANALYSIS
Even it is not dispute that the accused has also approached the Hon'ble Apex Court in Special Leave to Appeals and the same were also dismissed.	ANALYSIS
It is the specific contention of the learned Senior counsel for the petitioner- accused that this Court while dismissing the Criminal Petition No.1945/2020 dated 26.5.2020 has given a liberty to the petitioner-accused to move for bail after examination of the complainant.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is his further submission that the said order has been challenged before the Hon'ble Apex Court in Special Leave to Appeal (Criminal No.3211/2020) and the said appeal also came to be dismissed on 31.7.2020 and while dismissing, it directed the trial Court to examine the complainant within two months from the said date.	ARG_PETITIONER
 8. As per the direction of the Hon'ble Apex Court, on 28.8.2020, 1.9.2020, 3.9.2020, 4.9.2020, 5.9.2020 and subsequently on 10.9.2020 the complainant-PW1 has been fully examined and cross examined before the trial Court.	ANALYSIS
9. It is the specific contention of the learned Senior Counsel that in order to attract the provisions of Section 364A of IPC, the conduct of the accused person must be reasonably apprehended that the person so detained may be put to death or threatened to cause death.	ARG_PETITIONER
But the evidence of PW1 does not speak anything with regard to the ingredients of Section 364A of IPC.	ANALYSIS
For the purpose of brevity, I quote Section 364A of IPC, which reads as under: "364A. Kidnapping for ransom, etc.-	STA
Whoever kidnaps or abducts any person or keeps a person in detention after such kidnapping or abduction and threatens to cause death or hurt to such person, or by his conduct gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that such person may be put to death or hurt, or causes hurt or death to such person in order to compel the Government or any foreign State or international inter- governmental organization or any other person to do or abstain from doing any act or to pay a ransom, shall be punishable with death, or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine." 10.	STA
On close reading of said Section it indicates that, there must be life threat, or such bodily injuries likely to cause death has to be made to the detenue who has been kidnapped for the purpose of ransom.	ANALYSIS
I am of the considered opinion that whether the ingredients of Section 364A of IPC are going to be attracted or not, is a matter which has to be considered and appreciated only at the time of final disposal of the case.	ANALYSIS
At this pre-matured stage when still trial is going on before the trial Court, if I express my opinion, then the case of the prosecution as well as the accused is going to be prejudiced.	ANALYSIS
In that light, I am not inclined to express any opinion on the said point.	ANALYSIS
 11. In pursuance of the liberty granted by this Court in Criminal Petition No.1945/2020 and as per the observation made by the Hon'ble Apex Court, after examination of PW1, the present petition has been filed.	ANALYSIS
Already the remaining accused persons have been enlarged on bail and since more than two years the petitioner- accused is languishing in jail.	ANALYSIS
Whether he has committed the alleged offence or not, is a matter which has to be considered and appreciated during the course of trial.	ANALYSIS
 Under such circumstances, when already PW1 has been examined and cross-examined fully, there is no threat to the complainant to tamper with his evidence or threaten him while giving the evidence.	ANALYSIS
Be that as it may.	ANALYSIS
This case has been registered in the year 2016.	ANALYSIS
Petitioner-accused is in custody since 2018.	ANALYSIS
On perusal of evidence of PW1, it has taken a long time, many more witnesses are to be examined by the trial Court.	ANALYSIS
It is trite law that while considering the bail application, delay in concluding the trial has to be considered.	ANALYSIS
This proposition of law has been laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Raneef quoted supra.	ANALYSIS
At paragraph 15 it has been observed as under: "15.	ANALYSIS
In deciding bail applications an important factor which should certainly be taken into consideration by the court is the delay in concluding the trial.	ANALYSIS
Often this takes several years, and if the accused is denied bail but is ultimately acquitted, who will restore so many years of his life spent in custody?	ANALYSIS
Is Article 21 of the Constitution, which is the most basic of all the fundamental rights in our Constitution, not violated in such a case?	ANALYSIS
Of course this is not the only factor, but it is certainly one of the important factors in deciding whether to grant bail.	ANALYSIS
In the present case the respondent has already spent 66 days in custody (as stated in Para 2 of his counter-affidavit), and we see no reason why he should be denied bail.	RATIO
A doctor incarcerated for a long period may end up like Dr.Manette in Charles Dicken's novel A Tale of Two Cities, who forgot his profession and even his name in the Bastille."	ANALYSIS
 12. Keeping in view the above said aspects and as already other accused persons under similar facts and circumstances have been released on bail, I am of the considered opinion that, by imposing some stringent conditions if the petitioner-accused No.4 is ordered to be released on bail, it is going to meet the ends of justice.	RATIO
 13. In that light, this petition is allowed.	RPC
The petitioner-accused No.4 is ordered to be released on bail in Crime No.132/2016 of Basavanahalli Police Station (S.C.No.34/2018 pending on the file of the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Chikkamagaluru), for the offences punishable under Sections 364A, 395, 386, 324, 342, 506 and 120B r/w Section 149 of Indian Penal Code, subject to the following conditions: i) Petitioner-accused shall execute a personal bond for a sum of Rs.2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs Only) with two sureties for the likesum to the satisfaction of the trial Court.	RPC
 ii) He shall not tamper with the prosecution evidence directly or indirectly.	RPC
 iii) He shall not leave the jurisdiction of the Court without prior permission.	RPC
 iv) He shall mark his attendance before the jurisdictional police once in fifteen days in between 10.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m. till the trial is completed.	RPC
 v) He shall not threaten the complainant or man-handled anybody.	RPC
 vi) He shall not indulge in similar type of criminal activities.	RPC
If he again indulged in similar type of criminal activities, threaten the witness or man handle in any manner, the trial Court is at liberty to cancel the bail.	RPC
 vii) He shall surrender the Passport and Visa, if he is having before the trial Court till the trial is concluded.	RPC
 Sd/- JUDGE *AP/-	NONE
