     IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA                  DHARWAD BENCHDATED THIS THE 21ST DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2015	PREAMBLE
         PRESENTTHE HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE ANAND BYRAREDDY                               AND     THE HONOURABLE MRS.JUSTICE S.SUJATHA     INCOME TAX APPEAL NO.100062 OF 2014BETWEEN	PREAMBLE
Shri Veershaiv	PREAMBLE
Co-operativeCredit Society Ltd.,Nipani, Taluk: Chikodi,District: Belgaum,	PREAMBLE
By its SecretaryShri Subhash Shivaram Jabade,Aged major,Resident of Nipani,Taluk: Chikodi,District: Belgaum.                                       ... APPELLANT.(By Shri Sharad V. Magadum, Advocate)AND1. The Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals),    3rd Floor, Phiroz Khimji Complex,    Opposite to Civil Hospital,    Dr. Ambedkar Road,    Belagavi-590 001.2.	PREAMBLE
The Income Tax Officer    Ward No.1,    Nipani, Taluk: Chikodi,    District: Belgaum.	PREAMBLE
... RESPONDENTS.	PREAMBLE
(By Sri. Y V RAVIRAJ, ADVOCATE)	PREAMBLE
THIS ITA IS FILED U/SEC.260A OF THE INCOME-TAXACT, 1961 AGAINST THE ORDER PASSED IN ITANO.210/PNJ/2013 DATED 04.04.2014 ON THE FILE OF THEINCOME TAX APPELLANT TRIBUNAL, PANAJI BENCH,PANAJI, DISMISSING THE APPEAL FILED BY THEASSESSEE, AND ETC.       This appeal having been heard and reserved, and comingon for pronouncement of judgment, this day, Anand ByrareddyJ., delivered the following:JUDGMENT	PREAMBLE
This appeal is by the assessee under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (Hereinafter referred to as the 'IT Act, for brevity).	FAC
The assessee is said to be a Co-operative Society registered under the Karnataka State Co-operative Societies Act, 1956, (Hereinafter referred to as the `KCS Act', for brevity).	FAC
2. The appeal pertains to the Assessment year 2010-11.	FAC
The appellant - Society had filed its return of income for the assessment year 2010-11, and after claiming deduction under Section 80 P(2) (a) (i) of the IT Act, the total income was declared as 'nil'.	FAC
 The Assessing Officer had however, opined that the assessee was not entitled to the deduction, as claimed, for the reason, inter alia, that the activity of the appellant was covered by Section 2 (24 (vii a) of the IT Act, which requires the inclusion of profits and gains of any business of banking (including providing credit facilities) carried on by a co- operative society.	FAC
 Reference was made to the Explanation appended to Section 80 P (4) - which lays down that a co-operative bank and a primary agricultural credit society, shall have the same meaning assigned to them in Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (Hereinafter referred to as the 'BR Act' , for brevity.)	FAC
It was held that the Bye -laws of the Assessee indicated that their primary object was transactions that were apparently in the nature of banking.	FAC
In that, the assessee was receiving deposits from its members and providing loans to other members and hence it satisfied all the three conditions contemplated under Section 56 (ccv) of the BR Act.	FAC
For this premise, the Assessing Officer had proceeded on the basis that a primary co-operative bank, meant a Co-operative Society.	FAC
Therefore, the Assessing Officer held that the appellant society being a primary co- operative bank, was not eligible for deduction under Section 80 P of the IT Act.	FAC
3. The appellant - Society had then preferred an appeal before the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) challenging the above order of the Assessing Officer.	FAC
The same was said to have been dismissed.	FAC
 The appellant had then approached the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal.	FAC
The Tribunal having affirmed the concurrent findings of the above authorities, the appellant is before this court.	FAC
4. The questions of law that arise for our consideration in this appeal are : i. Whether the benefit of deduction, under Section 80 P (2) (a) (i) of the IT Act, could be denied to the assessee on the footing that, though the appellant was said to be a Co-operative Society, it was in fact a co-operative bank, within the meaning as assigned to such bank under Part V of the BR Act.	ISSUE
ii. Whether the Authorities under the IT Act were competent and possessed the jurisdiction to resolve the controversy as to whether the assessee was a co-operative society or co-operative bank, as defined under the provisions of the BR Act?"	ISSUE
 5. In addressing the above, it would be useful to extract the relevant provisions for ready reference.	ANALYSIS
 "80P. (1) Where, in the case of an assessee being a co-operative society, the gross total income includes any income referred to in sub-section (2), there shall be deducted, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, the sums specified in sub-section (2), in computing the total income of the assessee.	STA
 (2) The sums referred to in sub-section (1) shall be the following, namely :-- (a) in the case of a co-operative society engaged in-- (i) carrying on the business of banking or providing credit facilities to its members, or (ii) x x x x x (iii) x x x x x x x x x x (4) The provisions of this section shall not apply in relation to any co-operative bank other than a primary agricultural credit society or a primary co- operative agricultural and rural development bank.	STA
 Explanation.--	STA
For the purposes of this sub- section, (a) "co-operative bank" and "primary agricultural credit society" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949); (b) "primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank" means a society having its area of operation confined to a taluk and the principal object of which is to provide for long-term credit for agricultural and rural development activities.]"	STA
 "Section 56 of the BR Act:- Act to apply to co-operative societies subject to modifications	STA
. --The provisions of this Act, as in force for the time being, shall apply to, or in relation to, co- operative societies as they apply to, or in relation to banking companies subject to the following modifications, namely:-- (a) throughout this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-- (i) references to a "banking company" or "the company" or "such company" shall be construed as references to a co-operative bank; (ii) references to "commencement of this Act" shall be construed as references to commencement of the Banking Laws (Application to Co-operative Societies) Act, 1965 (23 of 1965); (b) in section 2, the words and figures "the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and" shall be omitted; (c) in section 5,-- [(i) after clause (cc), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:-- (cci) "Co-operative bank" means a state co- operative bank, a central co-operative bank and a primary co-operative bank; (ccii) "co-operative credit society" means a co- operative society, the primary object of which is to provide financial accommodation to its members and includes a co- operative land mortgage bank; (cciia) "co-operative society" means a society registered or deemed to have been registered under any Central Act for the time being in force relating to the multi-State co-operative societies, or any other Central or State law relating to co-operative societies for the time being in force;]	STA
(cciii) "director" in relation to a co-operative society, includes a member of any committee or body for the time being vested with the management of the affairs of that society; [(cciiia) "multi-State co-operative bank" means a multi-State co-operative society which is a primary co- operative bank;] [(cciiib) "multi-State co-operative society" means a multi-State co-operative society registered as such under any Central Act for the time being in force relating to the multi-State co-operative societies but does not include a national co-operative society and a federal co-operative;] (cciv) "primary agricultural credit society" means a co-operative society,-- (1) the primary object or principal business of which is to provide financial accommodation to its members for agricultural purposes or for purposes connected with agricultural activities (including the marketing of crops); and (2)	STA
the bye-laws of which do not permit admission of any other co-operative society as member:	STA
Provided that this sub-clause shall not apply to the admission of a co-operative bank as a member by reason of such co-operative bank sub-scribing to the share capital of such co-operative society out of funds provided by the State Government for the purpose; (ccv) "primary co-operative bank" means a co- operative society, other than a primary agricultural credit society,-- (1) the primary object or principal business of which is the transaction of banking business; (2) the paid-up share capital and reserves of which are not less than one lakh of rupees; and (3) the bye-laws of which do not permit admission of any other co-operative society as a member:	STA
Provided that this sub-clause shall not apply to the admission of a co-operative bank as a member by reason of such co- operative bank subscribing to the share capital of such co-operative society out of funds provided by the State Government for the purpose; (ccvi) "primary credit society" means a co- operative society, other than a primary agricultural credit society,-- (1) the primary object or principal business of which is the transaction of banking business; (2) the paid-up share capital and reserves of which are less than one lakh of rupees; and (3) the bye-laws of which do not permit admission of any other co-operative society as a member: Provided that this sub-clause shall not apply to the admission of a co-operative bank as a member by reason of such co-operative bank subscribing to the share capital of such co-operative socie-ty out of funds provided by the State Government for the purpose. Explanation.--	STA
If any dispute arises as to the primary object or principal business of any co-operative society referred to in clauses (cciv), (ccv) and (ccvi), a determination thereof by the Reserve Bank shall be final; x x x x x x 6.	ANALYSIS
In so far as the first question of law is concerned, there are a series of decisions of this court wherein it has been repeatedly answered in favour of the assessee.	ANALYSIS
Two of the said decisions are as follows : 1. CIT v. Sri Biluru Gurubasava Pattina Sahakari Sangha Niyamitha in ITA No.5006/2013 2. CIT vs. Bangalore Commercial Transporter Credit Society in ITA No.351/2011 & ITA No.599/2013	PRE_RELIED
In interpreting Section 80 P (4) in CIT v. Sri Biluru Gurubasava Pattina Sahakari Sangha Niyamitha of the I T Act, it was held as follows : "If a Co-operative Bank is exclusively carrying on banking business, then the income derived from the said business cannot be deducted in computing the total income of the assessee.	PRE_RELIED
The said income is liable for tax.	PRE_RELIED
A Co-operative bank as defined under the Banking Regulation Act includes the primary agricultural credit society or a primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank.	PRE_RELIED
The Legislature did not want to deny the said benefits to a primary agricultural credit society or a primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank.	ANALYSIS
They did not want to extend the said benefit to a Co- operative bank which is exclusively carrying on banking business i.e. the purport of this amendment.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, as the assessee is not a Co-operative bank carrying on exclusively banking business and as it does not possess a licence from Reserve Bank of India to carry on business, it is not a Co-operative bank.	ANALYSIS
It is a Co-operative society which also carries on the business of lending money to its members which is covered under Section 80P(2)(a)(i) i.e. carrying on the business of banking for providing credit facilities to its members.	ANALYSIS
The object of the aforesaid amendment is not to exclude the benefit extended under Section 80P(1) to such society.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, there was no error committed by the Assessing Authority."	ANALYSIS
 In CIT vs. Bangalore Commercial Transporter Credit Society (supra), this court has cited with approval the following differences between a co-operative society and a co-operative bank - as depicted by the Tribunal, in tabular form thus : Nature  Co-operative society Co-operative Society registered       under registered       under Banking Regulation Karnataka            Co- Act, 1949                 operative Society Act, 1959 Registration	PRE_RELIED
Under the Banking Co-operative Societies Regulation Act, 1949 Act, 1959 and         Co-operative Societies Act, 1959	PRE_RELIED
Nature of 1.	PRE_RELIED
As defined in 1.	ANALYSIS
As per the bye laws business Section 6 of Banking of the co-operative Regulation Act.	ANALYSIS
society. 2. Can open savings 2.	ANALYSIS
Society cannot open bank account, current savings bank account, account, overdraft current account, issue account, cash credit letter of credit, account, issue letter of discounting bills of credit, discounting bills exchange,     issue of exchange, issue cheque, demand drafts, cheques, demand drafts pay orders, gift (DD), Pay orders, Gift cheques, lockers, bank cheques, lockers, bank guarantees etc. guarantees etc.	ANALYSIS
3. Society cannot act 3.	ANALYSIS
Co-operative Banks clearing agent, for can act as clearing cheques, DDs, pay agent for cheques, orders and other forms.	ANALYSIS
 DDs, pay orders and other forms.	ANALYSIS
             4. Society are bound by rules and regulations as 4.	ANALYSIS
Banks are bound to specified by in the co- follow the rules, operative societies act.	ANALYSIS
 regulations          and directions issued by Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Filing of Co-operative banks	ANALYSIS
Society has to submit returns  have to submit annual the annual return to return to RBI every Registrar of Societies. year.	ANALYSIS
 Inspection RBI has the power to Registrar has the power inspect accounts and to inspect accounts and overall functioning of overall functioning of the Bank.	ANALYSIS
                the bank.	ANALYSIS
 Part V   Part V of the Banking Part V of the Banking Regulation Act is Regulation Act is not applicable to co- applicable to co- operative banks.          operative banks.	ANALYSIS
 Use      of	ANALYSIS
The word `bank', The word `bank', words    `banker', `banking' can `banker', `banking' be used by a co- cannot be used by a co- operative bank.           operative society.	ANALYSIS
 And this court had dismissed the appeal of the revenue following the decision in CIT v. Sri Biluru Gurubasava Pattina Sahakari Sangha Niyamitha (supra ).	ANALYSIS
The same view has been taken in the following decisions : 1. CIT vs. Bangalore Credit Co-operative Society Ltd. in ITA No.598/2013 2.	ANALYSIS
CIT vs. Yeshwanthpur Credit Co-operative Society Ltd. in ITA 237/2012 3. CIT vs. Mysore University Employees Co-operative Credit Society Ltd. in ITA 298/2013 4. CIT vs. Vasavi Credit Co-operative Society Ltd. in ITA No.118/2012 5. CIT vs. Sri Vasavi Multi Purpose Souharda Sahakari Sangha Niyamitha in ITA No.505/2013 6. CIT vs. General Insurance Employees Co-operative Society Ltd. in ITA No.273/2013. 	ANALYSIS
7. The learned counsel Shri A. Shankar while drawing attention of this court to the tenor of the relevant provisions of law and the above decisions, would contend that this court has categorically held that the assessee, as a co-operative society, was entitled to the benefit of deduction under Section 80 P (2) (a) (i) of the IT Act.	ANALYSIS
Notwithstanding the aforesaid decisions of this court, the Tribunal which was bound by the same, has ignored the said decisions.	ANALYSIS
 It is also pointed out that though other benches of the Appellate Tribunal had followed the dictum of this court, and which circumstance was brought to the attention of the Tribunal, it had not chosen to distinguish the said decisions nor has it chosen to refer the matter to a special bench, as propriety demanded. 	ANALYSIS
It is hence contended that the point of law as to the entitlement of deduction under Section 80 P (2) (a) (i) in so far as the assessee is concerned, would have to be held in its favour.	ANALYSIS
 He would contend that all co-operative banks may be co- operative Societies, but all co-operative Societies are not necessarily co-operative banks.	ANALYSIS
 It is further contended that the activity of "banking", is defined under Section 5 (b) of the BR Act as follows : "5(b) "banking" means the accepting, for the purpose of lending or investment, of deposits of money from the public, repayable on demand or otherwise, and withdrawal by cheque, draft, order or otherwise	STA
; It is asserted that the assessee did not carry on any such activity.	STA
And if they did carry on any such activity, it would be illegal and becomes subject to the rigour of Section 37 of the BR Act.	STA
It is further contended that even if there was a disputed question as to whether the assessee was indeed a co- operative bank.	ANALYSIS
The authorities under the IT Act were not competent and did not have the jurisdiction to arrive at a finding in that regard and attention is drawn to the Explanation appended to clause (ccvi ) to Section 56 of the BR Act, which reads as follows : "Explanation- If any dispute arises as to the primary object or principal business of any co- operative society referred to in clauses (cciv), (ccv) and (ccvi), a determination thereof by the Reserve Bank shall be final;" 	ANALYSIS
It is hence contended that the appeal be allowed and the judgment of the Tribunal be set aside.	ANALYSIS
 8. On the other hand, the learned counsel Shri Y.V.Raviraj, appearing on behalf of the Revenue contends as follows : Section 80P(2)(a)(i) provides deduction of income of co- operative societies "carrying on the business of banking or providing credit facilities to its members". 	ARG_RESPONDENT
However, an exception to this is provided under Section 80P(4) which provides that this deduction will not be available to any co-operative bank other than a primary agricultural credit society or a primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank.	ARG_RESPONDENT
 For the purpose of sub-section 80P(4), a co-operative bank has been given a meaning assigned to them in Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.	STA
 In Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, section 5(b), a "co-operative bank" means a State Co-operative Bank, a Central Co-operative Bank and a Primary Co-operative Bank.	STA
A Primary Co-operative Bank is defined in section 5(ccv) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as the co-operative society which fulfills three conditions namely: i) The primary object or principal business of which is transaction of banking business. ii) The paid-up share capital and reserves of which are not less than one lakh of rupees and iii) The bye-laws of which do not permit admission of any other co-operative society as a member. 	STA
If a co-operative society fulfills all the above three conditions, it is to be treated as a co-operative bank for the purpose of section 80P(4) and the benefit of deduction under Section 80P(2)(a)(i) is denied.	STA
 After insertion of Section 80P(4), the provisions of Section 80P(2)(a)(i) were not amended and the co-operative societies engaged in carrying on business in banking with its members continued to be entitled for deduction.	ANALYSIS
 The embargo put under Section 80P(4) are applicable only to a co-operative society, treated as a bank by a legal fiction created under Section 80P(4) as defined in the Explanation to the said section with reference to Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.	ANALYSIS
 However, if an assessee society does not fulfill any of the above three conditions as defined under Section 5(ccv) of Banking Regulation Act, 1949, it cannot be treated as a `primary co-operative bank' and as such will be eligible to get the deduction under Section 80P(2)(a)(i)	ANALYSIS
Attention is also drawn to the relevant portion of the Finance Minister's Budget Speech explaining the reasons for withdrawal of tax benefits to some Societies by way of insertion of sub-section 80P(4) and insertion of new sub-clause (viia) in clause (24) of Section 2 definition of "income" by the Finance Act, 2006, with effect from 1.4.2007, is as under: "The Co-operative banks are functioning at par with other commercial banks, which do not enjoy any tax benefits.	ANALYSIS
It is, therefore proposed to amend section 80P by inserting a new sub-section (4) so as to provide that the provisions of the said section shall not apply in relation to any co-operative bank other than primary credit society or a primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank.	ANALYSIS
It is also proposed to define the expressions "co-operative bank", "primary agricultural credit society" and "primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank". 	ANALYSIS
It is also proposed to insert a new sub-clause (viia) in clause (24) of the Section 2 so as to provide that ttheprofits and gains of any business of banking (including providing credit facilities) carried on by a co-operative society with its members shall be included in the definition of "income". Section 2(24(viia) of the Income Tax Act inserted by the Finance Act, 2006,	STA
with effect from 1.4.2007 includes the following in its definition of "income" as under: "profits and gains of any business of banking (including providing credit facilities) carried on by a co-operative society with its members."	STA
The relevant portion of Section 80P is as under: "80P(1): Where, in the case of an assessee being a co-operative society, the gross total income includes any income referred to in sub-section (2), there shall be deducted, in accordance with an subject to the provisions of this section, the sums specified in sub-section (2), in computing the total income of the assessee.	STA
 (2) The sum referred to in sub-section (1) shall be the following, namely:- (a) the case of a co-operative society engaged in :- (i) Carrying on the business of banking or providing credit facilities to its memebrs, or ...... (ii) ....................                (iii) ....................                (iv) ....................                (v) ....................                (vi) ....................                	STA
(vii) ....................                	STA
The whole of the amount of profits and gains of business attributable to any one or more of such activities.	STA
 Section 80P(4) which came to be introduced in the statute by the Finance Act, 2006, with effect from 1.4.2007, reads as under: 80P(4) The provisions of this section shall not apply in relation to any co-operative bank other than a primary agricultural credit society or a primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank. Explanation:- For the purposes of this sub-section, (a) "co-operative bank" and "primary agricultural credit society" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949); (b) "primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank" means a society having its area of operation confined to a taluk and the principal object of which is to provide for long-term credit for agricultural and rural development activities. Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, section 5(cci): In order to examine in a given case of an assessee society whether it is a co-operative bank or not as defined in Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, of the said Act has to be looked into.	STA
Section 5(cci) states as under: "Co-operative bank" means a state co-operative bank, a central co-operative bank and a primary co- operative bank." 	STA
The primary co-operative bank is defined under Section 5(ccv) of the BR Act as under: ""primary co-operative bank" means a co-operative society, other than a primary agricultural credit society-- (1) The primary object or principal business of which is transaction of banking business: (2) The paid-up share capital and reserves of which are not less than one lakh of rupees and (3) The bye-laws of which do not permit admission of any other co-operative society as a member: Provided that this sub-clause shall not apply to the admission of a co-operative bank as a member by reason of such co-operative bank subscribing to the share capital of such Co-operative society out of funds provided by the State Government `for the purpose'". Section 5(cciia) of Banking Regulation Act, 1949 defines a Co-operative Society as under: "Co-operative Society means a society registered or deemed to have been registered under any Central Act for the time being in force relating to the multi-State co-operative societies or any other Central or State law relating to co-operative societies for the time being in force;" Section 5(b) of the Banking Regulation Act, will also have to be looked into to examine whether the primary object or principal business of the co-operative society is transaction of banking business.	STA
The section is as under: "banking" means the accepting, for the purpose of lending or investment, of deposits of money from the public, repayable on demand or otherwise, and withdrawable by cheque, draft, order or otherwise" 	STA
The learned counsel would incidentally contend that the Tribunal while taking the cue from the decisions of this Court in CIT v. Sri Biluru Gurubasava Pattina Sahakari Sangha Niyamitha and other cases, in certain other appeals apart from the present has also formed an opinion on certain further propositions, namely: Proposition: Assessee society has not fulfilled the third condition mentioned in Section 5(ccv) of the BR Act and as such, cannot be treated as a primary co-operative bank as defined therein: The Tribunal has referred to section 16 of the Karnataka State Co-operative Societies Act, 1959 and held that the said provisions permit admission of any other co-operative society as a member.	ANALYSIS
The Tribunal however has erred in not examining whether the bye-laws of the assessee society permits other co- operative society to become member as per Section 5(ccv) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.	ANALYSIS
Provisions of Section 16(1) and 16(2) of the Karnataka State Co-operative Societies Act, 1959 does not help in any way to come to the conclusion that the bye-laws in the case of a particular assessee society permits admission of any other co-operative society as a member.	ANALYSIS
 Proposition: The Tribunal has referred to section 20 to 21A of the Karnataka Souhardha Sahakari Co-operative Societies Act, 1997, and held that the said provisions permit admission of any other co-operative society as a member.	ANALYSIS
 The Tribunal however ought to have examined into the aspect as to whether the bye-laws in the case of a particular assessee society permits admission of any other co-operative society as a member.	ANALYSIS
 Proposition:	ANALYSIS
Referring to the bye-laws of the assessee society, the Tribunal has observed that the Societies registered under the Karnataka Societies Registration Act, 1960 are allowed to become members.	ANALYSIS
 The Tribunal had failed to appreciate that a society registered under the Karnataka Societies Registration Act, 1960 is established or created for different purposes and cannot be treated as that of the one registered under the Karnataka Co- operative Societies Act, 1959 or that registered under the Karnataka Souhardha Sahakari Co-operative Societies Act, 1997.	ANALYSIS
 Proposition:	PRE_RELIED
The issue is covered by the decision of a Division Bench of this Hon'ble Court in the case of Sri. Biluru Gurubasava Pattina Sahakari Sangha Niyamitha, Bagalkot in ITA No.5006/2013 dated 5th February 2014:	PRE_RELIED
The substantial question of law pleaded on behalf of the Revenue in the said case was as follows: "In the facts and circumstances of this case, whether the Revisional Authority was justified in invoking his power under Section 263 of the Act without the foundational fact of assessee being co-operative bank was not there?" 	PRE_RELIED
It is pointed out that this Court, in the above case, had not examined the applicability of the provisions of the definition of a co-operative bank as per Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 by reading Explanation to section 80P(4).	ANALYSIS
The facts of the above case are clearly distinguishable and are not applicable.	ANALYSIS
However, a Review Petition was filed in the said case and subsequently, a memo had been filed to withdraw the said Review Petition, which is pending.	ANALYSIS
It is submitted that the matter is being taken up by the Revenue in appeal before the Hon'ble Apex Court.	ANALYSIS
 It is also stated that in some matters, the Tribunal has granted relief by holding that Section 80P(4) is not applicable, by referring to one circular of CBDT No.133 of 2007 dated 9.5.2007 which provided as under:- "Subject: clarification regarding admissibility of deduction under Section 80P of the Income Tax Act, 1961. 1.	ANALYSIS
Please refer to your letter No.DCUS/30688/2007, dated 28.03.2007 addressed to the Chairman, Central Board of Direct Taxes, on the above given subject. 2.	ANALYSIS
In this regard, I have been directed to state that sub-section (4) of section 80P provides that deduction under the said section shall not be allowable to any co-operative bank other than a primary agricultural credit society or a primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank.	ANALYSIS
For the purpose of the said sub-section, co-operative bank shall have the meaning assigned to it in part V of the Banking Regulations Act, 1949.	ANALYSIS
 3. In part V of the Banking Regulation Act, "Co-operative Bank" means a State co-operative bank, a Central Co-operative Bank and a primary Co- operative bank.	ANALYSIS
 4. Thus, if the Delhi Co-op Urban T and C Society Ltd. does not fall within the meaning of "Co- operative Banks" as defined in part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, sub-section (4) of Section 80P will not apply in this case.	ANALYSIS
 5. The issues with the approval of Chairman, Central Board of Direct Taxes." 	ANALYSIS
The learned counsel contends that the above circular has only clarified that if the societies do not fall within the meaning of the co-operative bank as per Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, then exception under Section 80P(4) will not apply.	ARG_PETITIONER
 Proposition:	ANALYSIS
The assessee Society has not obtained Banking Licence from the R.B.I:	ANALYSIS
It is contended that it is also pertinent to note that it is necessary that a co-operative society should have a banking licence as per the definition under the Income Tax Act, for carrying on banking business and if the required licence is not obtained as per other laws, it can only be termed as an illegal banking business under a particular statute prescribing the same.	ANALYSIS
Income Tax Act, however is concerned with the taxing of "income" as per the provisions of the Income Tax Act and "income" if any, has to be taxed whether it is from a legal or illegal business.	ANALYSIS
 Hence, it is contended by the learned counsel that, by the insertion of Section 2(24(viia) and Section 80P(4), by adopting the words `primary co-operative bank' means a co-operative society other than ...' in clause (ccv) of BR Act, the Legislature has created a legal fiction for the purpose of taxing under certain circumstances, a Society which is to be treated as a `bank' for the purposes of the Income Tax Act, 1961 while dealing with the issue of its claim of deduction under Section 80P. 	ANALYSIS
Further, when a Statute enacts that something shall be deemed to be treated as something else, which in fact is not true, the Court shall appreciate and ascertain for what purposes the statutory fiction is resorted and then give full effect to the statutory fiction to carry it to the logical conclusion.	ANALYSIS
 Therefore, in the case of an assessee  Co-operative Society claiming deductions under Section 80P, an examination of the factual aspects will have to be conducted by the Revenue authorities on the basis of the facts and materials on record to conclude whether the assessee  Society is to be treated as a `primary co-operative bank' which fulfills the above three conditions. 9.	PRE_RELIED
In the light of the above contentions and on an examination of the relevant legal provisions, it is to be noticed at the outset that this court in the appeal in ITA 351/ 2011, CIT v. Bangalore Commercial Transport Credit Co-operative Society Limited, decided on 27.6.2014, had framed the following substantial questions of law : "(i) Whether the Tribunal was correct in holding that the provision of sub-section (4) of Section 80P of the Income Tax Act are applicable only to co- operative Banks and not to credit Co-operative Societies, which are engaged in business of banking, including providing credit facilities to their members?	PRE_RELIED
 (ii) Whether the Tribunal was correct in holding that the assessee is a co-operative society and not a co- operative Bank in terms of sub-section (4) of Section 80P of the Income Tax Act without considering the meaning of co-operative Bank as envisaged under Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, wherein it is defined that co-operative Bank includes primary co- operative Bank, which is further defined as co- operative Society with the primary object of transactions of Banking business?"	ANALYSIS
 The said issues were answered in favour of the Assessee.	ANALYSIS
 10. We are in respectful agreement with the general view taken as to the interpretation of the relevant provisions of law, by the co-ordinate bench of this court, in the above and several other judgments adopting the same view.	RATIO
However, it is to be noticed that there is a seriously disputed question of fact which the Authorities under the IT Act have taken upon themselves to interpret in the face of the BR Act prescribing that in the event of a dispute as to the primary object or principal business of any co-operative society referred to in clauses (cciv), (ccv) and (ccvi) of Section 56 of the BR Act, a determination thereof by the Reserve Bank shall be final, would require the dispute to be resolved by the Reserve Bank of India, before the authorities could term the assessee as a co-operative bank, for purposes of Section 80 P of the IT Act.	RATIO
Any opinion expressed therefore is tentative and is not final.	RPC
The view expressed by this court, however, as to the assessee being a co-operative society and not a co-operative bank in terms of Section 80P (4) of the IT Act, shall hold the field and shall bind the authorities unless held otherwise by the Reserve Bank of India.	RPC
 In the result, the above questions are answered in favour of the assessee and the appeal is allowed as prayed for.	RPC
 Sd/- JUDGE Sd/- JUDGE KS*	NONE
