TITLE SHEET FOR JUDGMENTS IN SUITSIN THE COURT OF THE PRINCIPAL JUDGE, SMALL CAUSES                 AND SENIOR CIVIL JUDGE, MYSORE.	PREAMBLE
Present: Sri. S.H.Hosagoudar, B.Sc., LL.B.,(Spl.)         Judge, Court of small causes, Mysore.	PREAMBLE
Date of Judgment: 16th day of August 2012              O.S.No.182/2006Plaintiff :	PREAMBLE
-  Smt.Chikkannamma,              Aged about 52 years,              W/o	PREAMBLE
Late Sri Madegowda,	PREAMBLE
Dadadahalli Village,              Jayapura Hobli,              Mysore Taluk.                                       	PREAMBLE
(By Sri S.T.Somashekhara, Advocate)                                          -Vs.-Defendants:-	PREAMBLE
1. Sri Javanaiah,	PREAMBLE
S/o Late Chikkandugowda @ Buddaiah	PREAMBLE
,                         2. Smt. Doddannamma,	PREAMBLE
                                 W/o Late Sri Nanjegowda,                                 Aged about 55 years,	PREAMBLE
                         3. Maramma @ Nanjamma,                                 	PREAMBLE
D/o Late Chikkandugowda	PREAMBLE
@ Buddaiah,	PREAMBLE
All are residing at Dadadahalli village,                                 Jayapura Hobli,	PREAMBLE
Mysore	PREAMBLE
Taluk.                               	PREAMBLE
(By Sri.H.A.Shankar Rao, Advocate for D.1to 3)Date of the institution of the suit  :   06-02-2006Nature of the suit                   :   For partition and                                         	PREAMBLE
Separate possession	PREAMBLE
Date of commencement of Recordingof evidence                          :   22-06-2010                                         16-08-2012Date of Pronouncement of Judgement :	PREAMBLE
                                         Years Months DaysTotal Duration                       :   	PREAMBLE
06 06       10                                        Judge,                    Court of Small Causes, Mysore.                    	PREAMBLE
-:J U D	PREAMBLE
G M E N T:-	PREAMBLE
1. The plaintiff filed this suit against the defendants for partition and separate possession of her 1/4th share in the suit schedule properties by metes and bounds and cost of the suit.	FAC
2. In brief, the facts of the plaintiff's case are as under:-	FAC
The plaintiff and defendants are the children of late Chikkandugowda @ Buddaiah and all the suit schedule properties are the ancestral properties and joint family properties of plaintiff and the defendants.	FAC
The plaintiff and defendants have got equal right over the suit schedule properties for their specific share.	FAC
 3. It is further contended that the plaintiff is a poor helpless and an illiterate lady having no knowledge of worldly affairs.	FAC
The 1st defendant taking undue advantage of the facts, is trying to alienate the suit schedule properties on the basis of the Revenue entries got transferred to his name.	FAC
This fact of transferring the Revenue entries of the suit properties to the name of 1st defendant has come to the knowledge of the plaintiff very recently.	FAC
The 1st defendant in collusion with the other defendants is now trying to dispose off the suit schedule properties for their wrongful gain and to defraud the legitimate share of the plaintiff.	FAC
The advice of the elders and relatives to effect partition also went in vain.	FAC
Hence in order to protect the legitimate right of the plaintiff over the suit schedule properties, the plaintiff has come up with this suit.	FAC
Hence this suit.	FAC
4. In response to suit summons issued by the Court, Defendants have appeared through their counsel and filed Written Statement and additional Written Statement.	FAC
5. In brief, the Written Statement filed by defendant Nos.1 to 3 are as under:-	FAC
The suit filed by the plaintiff is not maintainable either in law or on facts.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The facts stated in para No.1 proof the plaint regarding the address of the defendants No.1 to 3 is partly correct, but the father's name of defendant No.1 and 3 is not correct.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Regarding the age of the parties, plaintiff has not correctly mentioned the same.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The plaintiffs age is 73 years, 1st defendant's age is 65 years, 2nd defendant's age is 76 years and 3rd defendant's age is 60 years.	ARG_RESPONDENT
6. The averments made in para No.2 of the plaint that the plaintiff and defendants No.1 to 3 are children of late Sri.Bundaiah is totally false.	FAC
In fact, they are all children of late Sri. Chikkandu Gowda.	ANALYSIS
The say of the plaintiff that the suit schedule properties are ancestral properties and joint family properties are in joint possession of plaintiff and defendants is totally false.	FAC
In fact, the plaintiff is married long back and she is ceased to become the joint family member of defendant No.1.	ANALYSIS
In fact, according to Hindu Law, the married wife became the joint family member of her husband's family and not in the family of her father.	ANALYSIS
The defendant No.2 and 3 are also not the joint family members of the defendant No.1 family because they are all married women, and their marriage was performed by their father late Sri Chikkandu Gowda during his life time, i.e, about 30 years and more.	FAC
The said Chikkandu Gowda died about 15 years back, i.e, in the year 1990 of October month.	FAC
The say of the plaintiff that she is having equal right over the suit schedule properties is wholly untenable under law.	FAC
7. The defendant No.1 submits that his late father Sri. Chikkunde Gowda and himself were the co-parceners of family.	ARG_RESPONDENT
His father had executed a registered settlement deed in favour of this defendant No.1 on 02/12/1969 by settling all the properties in favour of this defendant, including his interest.	FAC
So by virtue of this settlement, the settlee, i.e, the defendant no.1 has became the absolute rightful owner of the property sine then.	FAC
    Therefore, the plaintiff cannot allege that the suit schedule property is a joint family property.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Further, this defendant submits that the father of defendant No.1 after execution of settlement deed he has no right, title or interest over the properties mentioned in the settlement deed including the suit schedule properties item No.2 and 3.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Therefore, except the defendant No.1 no body has got right over these properties.	ARG_RESPONDENT
    Even though this fact is very much within the knowledge of plaintiff by suppressing, she has come up with false suit.	ANALYSIS
The item No.1 absolutely belonged to defendant No.3, who is purchaser of the same on 19/10/1992 under registered sale deed.	ANALYSIS
8. The averments made in para No.3 prove the plaint that the plaintiff is an illiterate and not having worldly knowledge affairs are all created for the purpose of case and also for sympathetic purpose.	ANALYSIS
The say of the plaintiff that the 1st defendant is taking the advantage of the same is far from truth.	ANALYSIS
In fact, the defendant No.1 is also an illiterate person, likewise, the defendant Nos.2 and 3.	ANALYSIS
The say of the plaintiff that the 1st defendant's name mentioned in revenue records came to her knowledge recently is totally false.	ANALYSIS
The Khatha has been changed in the name of the 1st defendant in the year 1997 itself on the basis of legal documents.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, he is the absolute owner of gthe properties as stated supra by virtue of settlement deed dated:02/12/1969.	ANALYSIS
So the say of the plaintiff that in collusion of defendant Nos.2 and 3 the defendant No.1 is trying to alienate the suit schedule properties is also false and created by the plaintiff for the purpose of case only and nothing else.	ANALYSIS
The say of the plaintiff that she is having legitimate share and to defraud the same the 1st defendant is trying to alienate are all concoction of the plaintiff.	ANALYSIS
Further, the say of the plaintiff that elders and relatives advised for partition is totally false.	ANALYSIS
In fact according to law the plaintiff has no right at all over the suit schedule properties to demand for partition, because the father of the plaintiff and defendants No.1 to 3 had no properties at the time of his death.	ANALYSIS
He has settled all his interest in co- parcenary properties in favour of defendant No.1, who is only the son for his father late Sri Chikkunde Gowda.	ANALYSIS
9. It is further submitted that the say of the plaintiff in para No.4 of the plaint that the cause of action arose to plaintiff since one month is deliberately invented by the plaintiff for the purpose of case only and not based on any legal right.	ANALYSIS
    Therefore, the suit of the plaintiff does not survive on this score itself.	ANALYSIS
The valuation slip filed by the plaintiff is not in accordance with law.	ANALYSIS
10. The defendants further submits that at the instance of all advise by the persons who have no cordiality with these defendants, the plaintiff has brought this suit in order to give unnecessary trouble.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Hence the suit of the plaintiff is not maintainable either in law or facts of the case.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Hence on these grounds defendant Nos.1 to 3 pray for dismissal of the suit.	ANALYSIS
 11.In brief, the additional Written Statement filed by defendant Nos.1 to 3 are as under:-	FAC
It is submitted that the plaintiff under the amendment made to the schedule to the plaint has included item No.4 and 5 i.e Sy.No.27/2P, measuring 1 acre 18 guntas (one acre eighteen guntas), Sy.No.119/1, measuring 2 acres 02 guntas (Two acres Two guntas), Sy.No.119/2, measuring 2 acres 11 guntas, (Two acres eleven guntas) and Sy.No.120/1, measuring 2 acres 27 guntas (Two acres Twenty seven guntas), all the lands situated at Dadadahalli village, claiming that, the said lands are the ancestral property and hence she is entitled for 1/4th share in the same and the claim made by her is also totally false and wrong for the reasons that the item No.4 of the suit property is purchased by the 1st defendant from one Smt.Kempalingamma for valuable consideration under the registered sale deed dated:4/5/1974 and item No.5 is owned, possessed and enjoyed by the 1st defendant by virtue of the registered settlement deed dated:2/12/1969, executed and registered by his father Chikkandugowda @ Javanegowda @ Gundaiah.	FAC
It is submitted that as the aforesaid property is the absolute property of the 1st defendant and as item No.4 of the suit property is purchased by him independently, absolutely and from his own earnings, neither the plaintiff nor the defendants 2 and 3 have got any manner of right, title and interest whatsoever in respect of the same.	ANALYSIS
The plaintiff inspite of the knowledge of the aforesaid facts has made the false claim before this Hon'ble Court and the claim made by her is also false, frivolous and vexatious.	ANALYSIS
On these grounds pray for dismissal of the suit.	FAC
 12. On the basis of the pleadings of both the parties, my learned predecessor in the office, has framed following issues and additional issues.	ISSUE
 ISSUES 1) Whether plaintiff proves that the suit schedule properties are the ancestral and joint family properties of plaintiff and defendants?	ISSUE
 2) Whether the plaintiff further proves that she is entitled for partition and separate possession of her 1/4th share in the suit properties?	ISSUE
 3) Whether the 1st defendant prove that by virtue of the settlement on 2/12/1969 he has become the absolute rightful owner of the property since then?	ISSUE
 4) Whether the defendants prove that the item No.1 of the Schedule Property absolutely belonging to the defendant No.3 who is the purchaser of the same on 19/10/1992 under the registered sale deed?	ISSUE
 5) Whether the plaintiff is entitled for the relief as prayed?	ISSUE
 6) What Order or Decree?	ISSUE
 Additional Issues framed on 18/09/2010 1) Whether defendants prove that the item No.4 of the suit schedule property is self acquired property of defendant No.1?	ISSUE
 13. In this case, the plaintiff in order to prove her case, she got examined GPA holder, who is also her son as PW1 and produced in all 6 documents, which are marked as Exhibits P.1 to P.6 and closed her side of evidence.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, the defendants in order to prove their case, defendant No.1 got examined his GPA holder, who is also his son as DW1 and defendant No.3 examined himself as DW2 and got examined one witness as DW3 and produced in all 14 documents, which are marked as Exts.D.1 to D.14.	FAC
In this case, the DW2 did not appear for cross-examination.	ANALYSIS
Hence part of the evidence of DW2 was expunged by this court as per order dated:18/2/2012. 14.	ANALYSIS
I have heard the arguments on both sides and perused the entire records of the case.	NONE
 15. On appreciation of the pleadings, oral and documentary evidence of both the parties, my answer to the above said issues and additional issues are as follows:- Issue No.1  :- In the Negative.	ANALYSIS
 Issue No.2  :- In the Negative.	ANALYSIS
 Issue No.3  :- In the Affirmative.	ANALYSIS
 Issue No.4  :- In the Affirmative.	ANALYSIS
 Issue No.5  :- In the Negative.	ANALYSIS
 Additional Issue No.1 :- In the Affirmative.	ANALYSIS
 Issue No.6  :- As per final order for the following :- R E A S O N S 16.	NONE
Issue Nos.1, 3, 4 and additional issue No.1:- Now I will consider these issues together, as they are inter-connected with each other and evidence is also common and also to avoid repetition.	ANALYSIS
 The plaintiff contended that herself and defendants are the children of late Chikkandugowda @ Buddaiah and all the suit schedule properties are the ancestral properties and joint family properties of plaintiff and the defendants and the plaintiff and defendants have got equal right over the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
She further contended that she is a poor, helpless and an illiterate lady having no knowledge of worldly affairs and the 1st defendant taking undue advantage of the facts, is trying to alienate the suit schedule properties on the basis of the Revenue entries got transferred to his name.	ARG_PETITIONER
She further contended that she is having 1/4th share in the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
 17. In this case, the defendants have appeared through his counsel and filed Written Statement, denying the case of the plaintiff.	ANALYSIS
The defendants admitted their relationship with the plaintiff.	FAC
They admitted that the plaintiff and defendants are the children of late Chikkandugowda @ Buddaiah, but they denied that suit schedule properties are the ancestral and joint family properties of plaintiff and defendants.	ANALYSIS
Defendant No.1 contended that his late father Chikkandugowda @ Buddaiah and himself were the co-parceners of family and his father had executed registered settlement deed in his favour on 2/12/1969 by settling all the properties in his favour, including his interest and hence by virtue of the settlement deed, he became the absolute owner and lawful possession and enjoyment of the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
He further contended that except himself nobody has got right interest over the item Nos.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties.	ARG_RESPONDENT
    Further defendants contended that item No.1 of the suit schedule property belonged to defendant No.3, who is the purchaser of the same on 19/10/1992 under registered sale deed.	ANALYSIS
Further defendants contended that item No.4 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.1 and hence suit schedule properties are not the ancestral and joint family properties of plaintiff and defendants and the plaintiff is not entitled any share in the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
 18. In this case the plaintiff got examined her GPA holder, who is also her son as PW1.	ANALYSIS
He filed affidavit evidence in lieu of his examination-in-chief.	FAC
In his examination-in-chief, he reiterated the plaint averments.	ANALYSIS
He deposed that the plaintiff and defendants are the children of late Chikkandugowda @ Buddaiah and all the suit schedule properties are the ancestral properties and joint family properties of plaintiff and defendants and the plaintiff and defendants have equal right over the suit schedule properties.	FAC
He further deposed that his mother is entitled 1/4th share in the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
    He produced in all 6 documents, which are marked as Exts.P.1 to P6.	FAC
In the cross-examination he stated that the marriage of his mother has taken place about 50 years ago.	ANALYSIS
He admitted that since from the date of marriage, his mother is residing with her husband's house.	FAC
He denied that defendant No.1 has purchased item No.4 of the suit schedule property under registered sale deed dated:4/5/1974.	ANALYSIS
He further denied that the father of defendant No.1 has executed settlement deed dated:2/12/1969 in favour of defendant No.1 in respect of the item No.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties.	FAC
He further denied that the item No.1 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.3. 19.	ANALYSIS
In this case defendant No.1 got examined GPA holder, who is also his son as DW1.	ANALYSIS
He filed affidavit evidence in lieu of his examination-in-chief.	ANALYSIS
In his examination-in-chief, he reiterated the contention taken in the Written Statement.	ANALYSIS
He deposed that the father of defendant No.1 and defendant No.1 were the coparceners of family and father of defendant No.1 had executed registered settlement deed in favour of defendant No.1 on 2/12/1969 by settling all the properties in favour of defendant No.1 including his interest and hence by virtue of the settlement deed, the defendant No.1 has became the absolute owner of item Nos.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
He further deposed that item No.1 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.3 and item No.4 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of his father, who has purchased the same under registered sale deed dated:4/5/1974.	ANALYSIS
He further deposed that suit schedule properties are not at all joint family properties of plaintiff and defendants and hence the plaintiff is not entitled any share in the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
He produced in all 14 documents, which are marked as Exts.D.1 to D.14.	ANALYSIS
In the cross-examination he denied that the suit schedule properties are the ancestral and joint family properties of plaintiff and defendants.	ANALYSIS
He denied that the plaintiff is also having 1/4th share in the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
In this case, defendant No.3, partly examined herself as DW2.	ANALYSIS
But in this case, DW2 did not appear for cross-examination and she was not subjected to cross- examination and hence part of evidence of DW2 was expunged.	ANALYSIS
20. In this case defendants got examined one witness as DW3.	ANALYSIS
    He filed affidavit evidence in lieu of his examination-in-chief.	ANALYSIS
    In his examination-in-chief, he supported the version of the defendants.	ANALYSIS
He deposed that item No.1 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of 3rd defendant, who was purchased the same under registered sale deed dated:19/10/1992 for valuable consideration.	ANALYSIS
He further deposed that item No.4 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.1, who was purchased the same under registered sale deed dated:4/5/1974 for valuable consideration.	ANALYSIS
He further deposed that during the life time of Chikkandugowda @ Buddaiah had executed registered settlement deed in favour of the 1st defendant on 2/12/1969 by settling all the properties in favour of 1st defendant including his interest in favour of 1st defendant and the husband of the plaintiff by name one Madegowda is one of the attesting witness to the said settlement deed and by virtue of the said settlement deed, the 1st defendant has became the absolute owner of the item No.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
In the cross-examination he denied that suit schedule properties are the ancestral and joint family properties of plaintiff and defendants.	ANALYSIS
 21. I have perused the entire oral and documentary evidence adduced by both the parties.	ANALYSIS
In this case, there is no dispute with regard to the relationship of the parties.	ANALYSIS
It is an admitted fact that the plaintiff and defendants are the children of late Chikkandugowda @ Buddaiah.	ANALYSIS
It is also an admitted fact that the marriage of the plaintiff took place about 50 years ago and she is residing with her husband's house, since from the marriage.	ANALYSIS
It is the case of the plaintiff that suit schedule properties are the ancestral and joint family properties of herself and defendants and there was no partition between the herself and defendants and hence she is entitled for 1/4th share in the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
The defendants denied the case of the plaintiff.	ANALYSIS
According to the defendants, item No.1 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.1 and so far as item No.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties are concerned, the father of defendant No.1 has executed settlement deed in favour of defendant No.1 on 2/12/1969 by settling all the properties including his interest, since the father of the defendant No.1 and defendant No.1 were the coparceners in the family and by virtue of the settlement deed, the 1st defendant has became the absolute owner and in possession and enjoyment of item Nos.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties and suit schedule properties are not the ancestral and joint family properties of plaintiff and defendants and the plaintiff is not entitled any share in the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
 22. In this case, the PW1, who is GPA Holder of the plaintiff, has produced in all 6 documents, which are marked as Exts.P.1 to P.6.	ANALYSIS
Ex.P.1 is the GPA.	ANALYSIS
Ex.P.2 to P.6 are the RTC extracts pertaining to suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
DW1, who is GPA holder of the defendant No.1 and also his son has produced 14 documents, which are marked as Exts.D.1 to D.14.	ANALYSIS
Ex.D.1	ANALYSIS
is the GPA.	ANALYSIS
Ex.D.2	ANALYSIS
is the sale deed.	ANALYSIS
Ex.D.3	ANALYSIS
is the RTC extract.	ANALYSIS
    Ex.D.4 is the registered sale deed.	ANALYSIS
Ex.D.5	ANALYSIS
is the encumbrance certificate.	ANALYSIS
Ex.D.6	ANALYSIS
is the settlement deed.	ANALYSIS
Ex.D.7 is the tax paid receipt.	ANALYSIS
Ex.D.8 to D.13 are the RTC extracts and Ex.D.14 is the ration card.	ANALYSIS
It is an admitted fact that the marriage of the plaintiff taken place about 50 years ago and since from the date of the marriage, she is residing with her husband's house.	ANALYSIS
In this case, DW1 produced registered settlement deed, which is marked as Ex.D.6.	ANALYSIS
On perusal of the same, it clearly shows that defendant No.1 and his father were the co- parceners of the family and father of the defendant No.1 had executed registered settlement deed in favour of defendant No.1 on 2/12/69 by settling all the properties i.e, item No.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties in favour of defendant No.1.	ANALYSIS
Hence by virtue of the said settlement deed, the defendant No.1 has became the absolute owner and in possession and enjoyment of the item Nos.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
Further the documents produced by defendants clearly shows that on the basis of the settlement deed, katha of the item No.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties were changed in the name of 1st defendant and defendant No.1 is in possession and enjoyment of the said properties by paying tax to the concerned authority.	ANALYSIS
It is pertinent to note that, Ex.D.6 is the registered document and it is more than 30 years old document.	ANALYSIS
Hence this Ex.D.6 has got presumptive value under section 90 of the Indian Evidence Act, with regard to its execution and attestation.	ANALYSIS
In this case, or any other suit the plaintiff has not challenged this Ex.D.6.	ANALYSIS
Even the plaintiff in her plaint nowhere alleged that the settlement deed dated:2/12/1969 is a concocted and created by defendant No.1.	ANALYSIS
Further there is no whisper about the settlement deed dated:2/12/1969 in the plaint.	ANALYSIS
It is also important to note that the husband of the plaintiff is also one of the attesting witness to this Ex.D.6.	ANALYSIS
Further evidence on record, clearly shows that, this Ex.D.6 was acted upon and on the basis of the Ex.D.6, katha of the item no. 2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties, are changed in the name of defendant No.1 and defendant No.1 is in possession and enjoyment of the suit schedule properties as an absolute owner and also he is paying tax in respect of the said properties.	ANALYSIS
Hence I do not find any reasons to doubt the genuineness of this Ex.D.6/settlement deed dated:2/12/1969 executed by the father of the 1st defendant in favour of defendant No.1.	ANALYSIS
As already stated, the settlement deed dated:2/12/1969 is a registered document and it is more than 30 years old document and hence it has got presumptive value under section 90 of the Indian Evidence Act, with regard to its execution and attestation.	ANALYSIS
Hence from the evidence on record it is much clear that father of defendant no.1 had executed registered settlement deed in favour of defendant No.1 on 2/12/1969 by settling all the properties namely item Nos.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties in favour of defendant No.1.	ANALYSIS
It is pertinent to note that, evidence on record, clearly shows that, as on the date of execution of the settlement deed, defendant No.1 and his father were only co-parceners of the family.	ANALYSIS
The evidence on record, clearly shows that, the plaintiff and defendant Nos.2 and 3 are the sisters of defendant No.1.	ANALYSIS
But the evidence on record, clearly shows that, as on the date of execution of the registered settlement deed dated:2/12/1969, the marriage of the plaintiff and defendant Nos.2 and 3 had already taken place and they were not the co-parceners of the defendant No.1's family.	ANALYSIS
The evidence on record, clearly shows that, as on the date of execution of the settlement deed, defendant No.1 and his father were the only co-parceners of the family and accordingly the father of defendant No.1 had executed settlement deed in favour of defendant No.1 in respect of item Nos.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties including his interest.	ANALYSIS
Hence by virtue of the settlement deed, defendant No.1 has became the absolute owner of item Nos.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
Therefore item Nos.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties are not at all the ancestral and joint family properties of plaintiff and defendants.	ANALYSIS
It is also important to note that, as on the date of execution of the settlement deed, the plaintiff and defendants Nos.2 and 3 were not the coparceners of the family and they have no right in the coparcenery properties.	ANALYSIS
In this case, the evidence on record, clearly shows that, father of defendant No.1 had executed registered settlement deed by settling all the properties in favour of defendant No.1 including his interest.	ANALYSIS
Hence the item Nos.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties are the absolute properties of defendant No.1 and they are not the ancestral and joint family properties of plaintiff and defendants Nos.1 to 3.	ANALYSIS
In this case, defendants produced registered sale deed dated:19/10/1992.	ANALYSIS
On perusal of the same, it clearly shows that defendant No.3 has purchased the item No.1 of the suit schedule property for valuable consideration.	ANALYSIS
Further RTC extract produced by the defendants also clearly shows that on the basis of the sale deed dated:19/10/1992, katha was changed in the name of defendant No.3 in respect of the item No.1 of the suit schedule property.	ANALYSIS
Hence from the evidence on record, it is much clear that, item No.1 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.3 and it is not the ancestral and joint family property of the plaintiff and defendants.	ANALYSIS
In this case, the plaintiff ahs not adduced any cogent evidence on record to show that the defendant No.3 has purchased the item No.1 of the suit schedule property out of the joint family income.	ANALYSIS
Hence in the absence of cogent evidence it cannot be said that the item No.1 of the suit schedule property was purchased in the name of defendant No.3 out of joint family funds.	ANALYSIS
DW1 in his evidence clearly stated that item No.1 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.3.	ANALYSIS
Further, DW3, who is the independent witness in his evidence clearly stated that, item No.1 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of 3rd defendant and she has purchased the same under registered sale deed dated:19/10/1992.	ANALYSIS
Nothing has been elicited from the mouth of DW1 and 3, during the course of their cross- examination to show that item No.1 of the suit schedule property is the joint family property of plaintiff and defendants.	ANALYSIS
Hence in the absence of cogent evidence it cannot be said that item No.1 of the suit schedule property has been purchased in the name of defendant No.3, who has purchased the same under registered sale deed dated:19/10/1992 for valuable consideration.	ANALYSIS
In this case, DW1 produced sale deed dated:4/5/74, which is marked as Ex.D.4.	ANALYSIS
On perusal of the same, it clearly shows that defendant No.1 has purchased the item No.4 of the suit schedule property from one Smt.Kempamma for valuable consideration under registered sale deed dated:4/5/1974.	ANALYSIS
Further evidence on record, clearly shows that, on the basis of the said sale deed, Katha was changed in the name of defendant No.1 and now defendant No.1 is in possession and enjoyment of the item No.4 of the suit schedule property as the absolute owner.	ANALYSIS
In this case, the plaintiff has not adduced any cogent evidence on record to show that defendant No.1 has purchased the item No.4 of the suit schedule property, out of the joint family funds.	ANALYSIS
Hence in the absence of cogent evidence it cannot be said that defendant No.1 has purchased item No.4 of the suit schedule property out of the joint family funds.	ANALYSIS
Hence from the evidence on record it is much clear that item No.4 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.1.	ANALYSIS
On perusal of the entire oral and documentary evidence it is much clear that item No.1 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.3 and item No.4 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.1.	ANALYSIS
Further evidence on record, clearly shows that, father of defendant No.1 had executed registered settlement deed in favour of defendant No.1 on 2/12/1969 by settling all the properties i.e, item Nos.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties in favour of defendant No.1 including his interest.	ANALYSIS
So by virtue of the said settlement deed, defendant No.1 has became the absolute owner of item nos.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
Further evidence on record, clearly shows that, the said settlement deed was acted upon and on the basis of the said settlement deed, katha of the item No.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties are changed in the name of defendant No.1 and now defendant No.1 is in possession and enjoyment of the said properties and he is paying tax to the concerned authority in respect of the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
As already stated, the settlement deed dated:2/12/1969 is a registered document and it is 30 years old document and it has got presumptive value under section 90 of the Indian Evidence Act, with regard to its execution and attestation.	ANALYSIS
Hence from the evidence on record it is much clear that defendant No.1 has acquired item No.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties, by virtue of the settlement deed, executed by his father in his favour.	ANALYSIS
Further evidence on record, clearly shows that, item No.1 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.3.	ANALYSIS
Further evidence on record, clearly shows that, item No.4 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.1.	ANALYSIS
Hence from the evidence on record it is much clear that the suit schedule properties are not at all the ancestral and joint family properties of plaintiff and defendants.	ANALYSIS
The plaintiff failed to prove issue No.1 whereas, defendants proved issue Nos.3, 4 and additional issue No.1.	ANALYSIS
    Accordingly I answered Issue No.1 in the negative and issue Nos.3, 4 and additional issue No.1 in the affirmative.	ANALYSIS
 23. Issue Nos.2 and 5:-	ANALYSIS
The plaintiff filed this suit for partition and separate possession of her 1/4th share in the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
While answering issue No.1 it is held that the suit schedule properties are not the ancestral and joint family properties of plaintiff and defendants.	ANALYSIS
While answering issue No.3, it is held that by virtue of the settlement deed, dated:2/12/1969, defendant No.1 has became the absolute owner of item Nos.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
While answering issue No.4, it is held that item No.1 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.1, who has purchased the same on 19/10/1992 under registered sale deed for valuable consideration.	ANALYSIS
Further while answering additional issue No.1, it is held that item No.4 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.1.	ANALYSIS
Hence from the evidence on record it is much clear that during the lifetime of father of the 1st defendant, he had executed registered sale deed in favour of defendant No.1 on 2/12/1969 by settling all his properties in favour of 1st defendant, including his interest and by virtue of the said settlement deed, defendant No.1 became the absolute owner and in possession and enjoyment of the item No.2, 3 and 5 of the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
Further evidence on record, clearly shows that, item No.4 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.1.	ANALYSIS
Further evidence on record, clearly shows that, item No.1 of the suit schedule property is the self acquired property of defendant No.3.    Hence from the evidence on record it is much clear that item No.2, 3, 4 and 5 of the suit schedule properties are the absolute properties of defendant No.1, whereas item No.1 of the suit schedule property is the absolute property of defendant No.3.	ANALYSIS
Hence from the evidence on record it is much clear that the suit schedule properties are not the ancestral and joint family properties of plaintiff and defendants.	RATIO
    Therefore, the plaintiff is not entitled any share in the suit schedule properties.	RATIO
Further the plaintiff is not entitled any relief as sought in this suit.	RATIO
Accordingly, I answered issue Nos.2 and 5.	NONE
 24. Issue No.6:-	RPC
From my above discussion and findings on issues and additional issues, the suit filed by the plaintiff is liable to be dismissed.	RPC
Hence in the result, I proceed to pass the following:- O R D E R Suit of the plaintiff is hereby dismissed.	RPC
 Under the facts and circumstances of the case, there is no order as to costs.	RPC
 Draw decree accordingly. (Typed to my dictation on computer by the Stenographer and after making necessary corrections, pronounced by me in the open court this the 16th day of August 2012)	NONE
(S.H.Hosagoudar)	NONE
Judge, Court of Small causes & Sr. C.J.	NONE
                                                                   Mysore.	NONE
ANNEXURES	NONE
Witnesses examined on behalf of the Plaintiff: - PW.1         : Puttaraju Documents marked on behalf of the plaintiff : - Ex.P.1       : GPA Ex.P.2 to 6  : RTC extracts	NONE
Witnesses examined on behalf of the defendants : DW.1         : J. Shivanna DW.2         : Nanjamma DW.3         : Ramegowda Documents exhibited on behalf of the defendants :- Ex.D.1       : GPA Ex.D.2	NONE
      : Original registered sale deed Ex.D.3	NONE
              Dt:19/10/92 Ex.D.4	NONE
: RTC extract : Original Registered Sale deed Ex.D.5	NONE
 :        Dt.04/05/1974 Endorsement Ex.D.6	NONE
 :        Settlement deed Tax paid receipt Ex.D.7  :	NONE
RTC extract RTC extracts Ex.D.8  : Ex.D.9 to 13 : Date:16/08/2012	NONE
Judge, Place:Mysore.    Court of Small causes & Sr. C.J. Mysore.	NONE
