IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BANGALORE      DATED THIS THE 05TH DAY OF MARCH 2014                           PRESENT	PREAMBLE
THE HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE DILIP B.BHOSALE                           AND      THE HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE B.MANOHAR                ITA NO.828/2007	PREAMBLE
BETWEEN:H.Raghavendra Rao,                  ...AppellantNo.431-D, 1st Floor,10th Main, 1st `N' Block,Rajajinagar,BangaloreNow at New Delhi.(By Sri.K.P.Kumar, Sr. Adv a/w. Sri.Chandrashekar andSri.Kashinath Kalmath, Advocates for M/s.VasanAssociates for the appellant)AND:Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax,Circle -4 (1),Bangalore.                          .... Respondent	PREAMBLE
(By Sri.K.V.Aravind, Advocate)	PREAMBLE
        This ITA is filed under Sec.260-A of I.T Act 1961,arising out of order dated 13/07/2007 passed in ITANo.82/Bang/2005, for the Assessment Year 1997-98,praying that this Hon'ble Court may be pleased to:        i. formulate the substantial questions of law                stated therein,        ii. allow the appeal and set aside the order                passed by the ITAT, in ITA                No.82/Bang/2005 dated 13/07/2007, in the                interest of justice and equity.        This appeal having been heard and reserved andcoming on for pronouncement of judgment this day,B.MANOHAR.J., delivered the following:                    J U D G M E N T 	PREAMBLE
The assessee filed this appeal under Section 260A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (for short `the Act') challenging the order dated 13th July 2007 made in ITA No.82/Bang/2005 passed the by Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Bangalore Bench `A' (for short `the Tribunal') dismissing the appeal filed by the assessee confirming the order passed by the authorities below in respect of deduction under Section 80-O of the Act, for the assessment year 1997-98.	FAC
2. The assessee, in the status of an individual, filed return of income for the assessment year 1997-98 declaring the total income of Rs.5,23,576/- on 29.10.1997 and claimed deduction under Section 80-O of the Act.	FAC
The said return was processed under Section 143(1) of the Act on 26.03.1998.	FAC
Subsequently, the Assessing Officer issued notice dated 27.09.2000 under Section 148 of the Act for reopening the assessment.	FAC
On receipt of the notice, the assessee vide letter dated 13.10.2000 requested the Assessing Officer to treat the returns filed on 29.10.1997 as the returns filed in response to the notice under Section 148 of the Act.	FAC
Further requested the Assessing Officer to furnish a copy of the reason recorded for initiating reassessment proceedings.	FAC
In pursuance of the notice, an authorized representative of the assessee appeared and produced necessary documents and argued the matter.	FAC
The Assessing Officer after hearing the matter on various dates held that the assessee is not entitled for the benefit of deduction under Section 80-O of the Act since the assessee has rendered service in India as per Explanation (iii) to Section 80-O of the Act.	FAC
Accordingly, by its order dated 26.12.2001 reassessed the income of the assessee under Section 143(3) of the Act and demanded interest under Sections 234-B and 234-C of the Act.	FAC
 3. The assessee being aggrieved by the reassessment order dated 26.12.2001 passed under Section 143(3) of the Act preferred an appeal before the Commissioner of Income-Tax (Appeals)-II, Bangalore (for short `the Appellate Authority') on various grounds.	FAC
The Appellate Authority, after re-examining the matter and taking into consideration the Retainer Agreement entered into between the assessee and M/s.	FAC
Buckeye Corporation Private Limited held that in view of Explanation (iii) to Section 80-O, the assessee is not entitled for the relief and dismissed the appeal by its order dated 25.10.2004. 4.	FAC
Being aggrieved by the order passed by the Appellate Authority, the assessee preferred an appeal before the Tribunal, mainly contending that reopening of the assessment is contrary to law and the assessee is entitled for deduction under Section 80-O of the Act.	FAC
In view of the Circular No.700 dated 23.03.1995 passed by the Central Board for Direct Taxes (for short `the CBDT'), the Appellate Tribunal after re-examining the matter held that the assessee has rendered his service in India and received the fees in foreign exchange out of the Retainer Agreement entered into between the assessee and the Foreign Enterprises and in view of Explanation (iii) to Section 80-O of the Act, the assessee is not entitled for any relief and dismissed the appeal.	RLC
Being aggrieved by the order passed by the Tribunal, the assessee preferred this appeal.	FAC
5. The instant appeal was admitted for considering the following substantial questions of law: (1) Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Appellate Tribunal grossly erred in dismissing the appeal without considering the submissions made by the appellant challenging the reopening of the assessment by initiating proceedings u/s.147 of the Act? (2) Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Appellate Tribunal erred in not examining the documents produced by the appellant to appreciate that the assessee had be producing fax receipts sent to Singapore demonstrated that he had rendered the services from India but not in India?	ISSUE
 6. Sri	ARG_PETITIONER
.K.P.Kumar, learned Senior Advocate appearing for M/s.Vasan Associates for the appellant contended that the order passed by the Appellate Tribunal confirming the order passed by the First Appellate Authority as well as the Assessing Authority is contrary to law.	ARG_PETITIONER
He submitted that, reopening of the assessment under Section 147 of the Act is contrary to law.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is not open to the Assessing Officer for reappraisal of the opinion already reached and change of opinion is not permitted under the law.	ARG_PETITIONER
Hence, reopening of the assessment is without jurisdiction.	ARG_PETITIONER
He further submitted that the Assessing Officer had failed to furnish the reason for reopening the assessment.	ARG_PETITIONER
The Appellate Authority failed to appreciate the Circular dated 23.03.1995 issued by the CBDT.	ARG_PETITIONER
He submitted that the assessee is an advocate by profession.	ARG_PETITIONER
He entered into a Retainer Agreement with M/s.Buckeye Corporation Private Limited.	ARG_PETITIONER
He has given legal opinion on all matters required by the company, since the said company wanted to establish an industry in India.	ARG_PETITIONER
The assessee being the resident of India has fulfilled all the conditions as prescribed under Section 80-O of the Act.	ARG_PETITIONER
In consideration of professional service rendered or agreed to be rendered outside India, he received Fee in convertible foreign exchange and it was brought to India.	ARG_PETITIONER
Hence, he is entitled for deduction of 50% of the income so received or brought to India in computing total income of the assessee.	ARG_PETITIONER
The services rendered by the assessee is out of India to a Foreign Enterpriser.	ARG_PETITIONER
The circular issued by the CBDT vide Circular No.700, dated 23.03.1995 categorically states that as long as technical and professional services are rendered from India and are received by a Foreign Government or Enterprise outside India, deduction under Section 80-O would be available to the person rendering the services even if the foreign recipient of the services utilizes the benefit of such services in India.	ARG_PETITIONER
The Tribunal misunderstood and misread the circular.	ARG_PETITIONER
He also relied upon the judgments reported in (2005) 273 ITR 92 (COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX v/s INCHCAPE INDIA P. LIMITED); (2008) 305 ITR 105 (Delhi) (LI & FUNG INDIA P. LTD. v/s COMMISSIONER OF INCOME- TAX); (2008) 167 Taxman 64 (COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX v/s EICHER CONSULTANCY SERVICES LTD.) and sought for allowing the appeal.	ARG_PETITIONER
 7. On the other hand, Sri.K.V.Aravind, learned counsel appearing for the Revenue argued in support of the order passed by the Tribunal and contended that the assessee is not entitled for the benefit under Section 80-O of the Act.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The Retainer Agreement entered into between the assessee and M/s. Buckeye Corporation P.Limited clearly disclose that the assessee has to act as an Advocate and render all legal services and to conduct cases in India in view of Explanation (iii) to Section 80-O of the Act.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The assessee is not entitled for any deduction.	ARG_RESPONDENT
In support of the said contention, learned counsel for the Revenue relied upon the judgment in (2006) 286 ITR 432 (Delhi) in the case of ANAND & ANAND v/s COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX and sought for dismissal of the appeal.	ARG_RESPONDENT
 8. We have carefully considered the arguments addressed by the learned counsel for the parties and perused the orders impugned and other relevant records.	NONE
9. The assessee filed the return of income in the status of an individual for the assessment year 1997-98 declaring the total income and also claiming deduction under Section 80-O of the Act.	ANALYSIS
The said returns was processed under Section 143(1) of the Act.	ANALYSIS
Subsequently, the Assessing Officer noticed that the assessee has not fulfilled the conditions of the provisions of Section 80-O and issued notice under Section 148 of the Act for reopening of the assessment.	ANALYSIS
The authorized representative of the assessee appeared and produced the necessary documents and also made available the Retainer Agreement entered into between the assessee and M/s. Buckeye Corporation Private Limited.	ANALYSIS
The Assessing Officer noticing some of the clauses of the agreement held that the services rendered by the assessee in relation to legal proceedings in the Court within the country to the clients who are stationed outside the country, though the payment has been made under the convertible foreign exchange, the said receipt will not fall under Section 80-O of the Act, more particularly, Explanation (iii) to Section 80-O of the Act.	ANALYSIS
Some of the clauses of the agreement read thus: (i) That the Company hereby retains and appoints the said Advocate to act as its Advocate and to render all legal advice and give opinion on all matters required by the Company including but not limited to requisitions made therefore to the said Company and to represent it in all matters which may be pending in any of the Courts brought by or against the said Company and representations before any tribunal regulatory or administrative authority during the continuance of this agreement and to examine all abstracts of title, documents and correspondences and prepare all agreement and contracts and do all such acts and render all such legal services as the said Company or any of its officers or directors, acting officially, may require.	ANALYSIS
 (ii) This agreement shall be terminable at the option of either party with prior notice of three months subject to the stipulation that the right of termination shall not be exercised during the first year of its operation.	ANALYSIS
That the Advocate engages to attend to all the legal matters of the said Company and also, to send notices of demand or otherwise for recovery of outstanding dues to the Company, to reply to notices received by the Company from others, to enter into correspondence in the above matters with the said persons to take legal proceedings arising in any maters with the said persons, to take legal proceedings and make representations to all governmental and non-governental entities arising in any matters connected with the business of the Company and to defend such matters in the courts or before other authority in this behalf, to render legal advice in connection with any matters arising out of the business carried on or intended to be carried on by the Company, to represent the Company and act, plead and appear for the Company in all legal matters whether in Court or before any tribunal regulatory or administrative authority and other non-governental entities or elsewhere in India, to draft deeds or other documents usually drafted by Lawyers for a client, and to give opinion in writing on requests being made thereof on facts stated to the said Advocates orally or in writing. 10.	ANALYSIS
In order to obtain deduction under Section 80-O of the Act	ANALYSIS
, the services rendered or agreed to be rendered outside India or rendered from India but shall not include the services rendered in India.	ANALYSIS
For better appreciation of the facts, Section 80-O of the Act as it stood at the relevant point in time reads as under: " Sec.80-O Deduction in respect of royalties, etc., from certain foreign enterprises.	STA
 Where the gross total income of an assessee, being an Indian company, or an person (other than a company) who is resident in India includes any income by way of royalty, commission, fees or any similar payment received by the assessee from the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise in consideration for the use outside India of any patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or process, or similar property right, or information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific knowledge, experience or skill made available or provided or agreed to be made available or provided to such Government or enterprise by the assessee, or in consideration of technical or professional services rendered or agreed to be rendered outside India to such Government or enterprise by the assessee, and such income is received in convertible foreign exchange in India, or having been received in convertible foreign exchange outside India, is brought into India, by or on behalf of the assessee in accordance with any law for the time being in force for regulating payments and dealings in foreign exchange, they shall be allowed, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, a deduction of an amount equal to fifty per cent of the income so received in, or brought into India, in computing the total income of the assessee,: Explanation	STA
 For the purposes of this Section, - (i) `convertible foreign exchange, means foreign exchange which is for the time being treated by the RBI as convertible foreign exchange for the purposes of the law for the time being in force for regulating payments and dealings in foreign exchange; (ii) "foreign enterprise" means a person who is a non-resident; (iii) services rendered or agreed to be rendered outside India shall include services rendered from India but shall not include services rendered in India; 11.	STA
Reading of the above Section makes it very clear that deduction is admissible under Section 80-O only if the income of the assessee includes receipt by it from the Government of a Foreign State or a Foreign Enterprises in convertible foreign exchange in consideration of professional services rendered or agreed to be rendered outside India to such enterprises by the assessee.	ANALYSIS
The Explanation (iii) to Section 80-O of the Act makes a clear distinction between the services rendered or agreed to be rendered outside India which expression includes services rendered from India.	ANALYSIS
However, it will not include services rendered in India.	ANALYSIS
In the instant case, reading of some of the clauses of the agreement makes it very clear that in convertible foreign exchange by way of fee received by the assessee for the services rendered in relation to legal proceedings in Court within this country, it falls under the Explanation (iii) to Section 80-O i.e. services rendered or agreed to be rendered in India.	ANALYSIS
Hence, the assessee is not entitled to claim deduction.	ANALYSIS
Further, reading of the clarification made by the CBDT in its circular dated 23rd March 1995, it is very clear that "the technical and professional services are rendered from India and are received by a Foreign Government or Enterprises outside India, deduction under Section 80-O would be available to the person rendering the services even if the foreign recipient of the service utilizes the benefit of such services in India".	ANALYSIS
In the instant case, admittedly the service has been rendered in India representing the foreign company in the litigation brought forward by or against the said company.	ANALYSIS
For the services rendered in India, the company has to pay $10,000 payable on or before 5th of every month as a retainer fee in convertible foreign exchange.	ANALYSIS
Hence, the Board Circular will not come to the aid of the assessee.	ANALYSIS
To avail the benefit under Section 80-O, he has to come within the purview of Explanation (iii) to the said Section.	ANALYSIS
In the instant case, the assessee is rendering services in India to a foreign company, hence he is not entitled for any deduction.	ANALYSIS
12. The judgments relied upon by the learned Senior Advocate are not applicable to the facts of the present case.	ANALYSIS
In LI & FUNG INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED v/s COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, the Delhi High Court examined the matter with regard to the managerial services rendered by the assessee which falls under the technical services.	PRE_NOT_RELIED
In COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX v/s INCHCAPE INDIA P. LTD., the Delhi High Court examined the services rendered with regard to the dyeing and testing divisions, whether it is technical service or not?	PRE_NOT_RELIED
Further in COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX v/s EICHER CONSULTANCY SERVICES LTD., the Delhi High Court has dealt with providing consultancy services to the foreign company in Faridabad.	PRE_NOT_RELIED
The said judgments are not applicable to the facts of the present case.	PRE_NOT_RELIED
On the other hand, the judgment of Delhi High Court in ANAND AND ANAND v/s COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX is squarely applicable to the facts of the present case.	PRE_RELIED
In the said case, the court was dealing with the legal services rendered by the Firm to a foreign company.	PRE_RELIED
The Delhi High Court after examining Section 80-O and also the clarification issued by the CBDT held that the assessee is not entitled for any deduction under Section 80-O of the Act.	PRE_RELIED
Relevant Paragraph 7 of the said judgment reads as under: 7.	PRE_RELIED
There is, in our opinion, no merits in the contention urged by Mr.Vohra.	PRE_RELIED
The legislative intent behind the provision of s.80-O is much too clear from Expln. (iii) to the same to need any detailed exercise involving interpretation of that provision.	PRE_RELIED
The Explanation makes it abundantly clear that a deduction under s.80- O is not allowable if the foreign receipts are relatable to services rendered in India.	PRE_RELIED
A professional's service can be rendered within India as much as it can be rendered from India.	PRE_RELIED
It would depend upon the nature of the service and not on whether the provider and the recipient of the service are located in two different countries.	PRE_RELIED
For instance, in cases where a professional offers his professional advice to a client who is stationed outside India, the service can be said to be rendered from India because it is only the rendition of advice from the professional to the recipient that is flowing outside the country.	PRE_RELIED
The flow of technical or professional expertise and knowledge of an expert located in India to a recipient outside India would doubtless constitute service rendered from India.	PRE_RELIED
At the same time, the service rendered by the expert may be limited to his advice or opinion on a subject.	PRE_RELIED
It may at times be accompanied by the experts doing various other acts within or outside the country.	PRE_RELIED
If the service is limited to advice with or without acts to be performed outside the country, payments received in foreign exchange would qualify for deduction.	PRE_RELIED
        That may not be so in cases where a professional, as in the case of the appellant before us, offers its professional services in Courts within the country and receives payment for rendition of such services.	PRE_RELIED
In such a situation, what the client gets is services of the professional rendered in India in relation to a matter which is pending in the Courts here.	PRE_RELIED
The fact that the client who eventually benefits from such service in India is stationed outside the country is not the sole criterion.	PRE_RELIED
        Payments received by any such professional for such services would not, therefore, qualify for deduction under s.80-O. 13.	PRE_RELIED
We are in respectful agreement with the view taken by the Delhi High Court in the case referred to above.	ANALYSIS
The Tribunal, the First Appellate Authority and the Assessing Authority on examining the matter concurrently held that the assessee is not entitled for deduction under Section 80-O of the Act.	RATIO
We find no infirmity or irregularity in the order passed by the authorities below.	RATIO
On re-examining the matter, we also found that the assessee is not entitled for any deduction under Section 80-O of the Act.	RATIO
Hence, the substantial questions of law framed in this appeal are held against the assessee.	RPC
Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed.	RPC
 Sd/- JUDGE Sd/- JUDGE mpk/-*	NONE
