DISTRICT:	PREAMBLE
SUNDARGARH	PREAMBLE
HEADING OF DECISION IN CRIMINAL CASES	PREAMBLE
IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE,                            ROURKELA.                         **	PREAMBLE
* *** *	PREAMBLE
**Present:                Sri S.K.Swain, LL.M.,                1st Addl.Sessions Judge,                Rourkela.                   Sessions Trial No.218/2014(Arising out of GR Case No. 1312/14, corresponding to Sector7 PS Case        No.40/14 committed on 21.11.2014)Rourkela, Friday, the 23rd December, 2016State of Orissa  Versus  ..... ComplainantUjawal Sahoo, aged about 25 years, Son of Kumar Sahoo,resident of Velwadihi, PsSimdega, DistJharkhand.Appearance:	PREAMBLE
..... Accused.	PREAMBLE
For the State    ...... Shri A.K.Pradhan, Additional PP,                         Rourkela.	PREAMBLE
For the accused  ...... Shri B.N.Samanta and another,                         Advocates, Rourkela.Date of Argument  .... 12.12.16Date of Judgment  .... 23.12.16                                       JUDGMENT	PREAMBLE
       Offence Under Section 364 (A) of the Indian Penal Code.	NONE
 Accused Ujawal Sahoo stands charged for the offence punishable under section 364(A) of the Indian Penal Code.	FAC
 2. Prosecution case, as projected in the FIR in short is that, accused Ujwal, being the brotherinlaw (Sadu) of the son of the informant had visited their residential house at Qrs. No. E/7, Sector9, Rourkela on 05.06.2014 and on that day at about 6.00 PM kidnapped the grand son of the informant from their above residence.	FAC
He then threatened the family members to cause death of the minor child, if the money demanded by him will be given.	FAC
So, on that day at about 9.00 PM, the informant lodged a FIR at Sector7 PS, Rourkela, which triggered the investigation.	FAC
 3.  After completion of investigation, chargesheet was submitted and cognizance of the above offence having been taken, the case has been committed to this Court for trial.	FAC
4. The plea of the accused is one of complete denial and false implication.	FAC
It was specifically pleaded by the accused that, after the death of his wife, his brotherinlaw falsely foisted this case, in order to take revenge.	FAC
 5. So, the point for determination of this case is whether on 05.06.2014 at about 6.00 PM, the present accused kidnapped the minor grand son of the informant for ransom ?	ISSUE
 6. The prosecution in order to bring home the charge against the accused has examined altogether eight witnesses, of whom PW1 is the informant, PW2 is the mother of the victim child, whereas PW5 is the father of the above child.	FAC
PWs 3, 4 and 6 are the independent witnesses and PW7 is the Investigating Officer of this case.	FAC
PW8 is the then ASI of Police of Birmitrapur PS, where the kidnapped child was handed over.	FAC
 From the side of the prosecution besides FIR marked as Ext1, other two relevant documents have also been admitted in evidence.	FAC
 7. To substantiate the plea taken by the accused, two witnesses have been examined as DWs1 & 2.	FAC
But, no document has been proved or produced in defence.	FAC
 8. The present case being a case of kidnap for ransom, prosecution has to prove its by positive evidence that : (a) the accused took or entice away the minor child; (b) such taking or enticing must be out of the keeping of the lawful guardian of such minor and without their consent and lastly ; (c) the accused also threatened to cause death to such minor in order to compel his family members to pay ransom.	ANALYSIS
 9. In the case of Lohit KoushalVersusState of Harayana (2009), 17 SCC 106, it has been held that, kidnapping as understood U/s. 364 A IPC is a truly reprehensible crime and when a helpless child is kidnapped for ransom and that too by a close relative, the incident becomes all the more unacceptable.	PRE_RELIED
Very gravity of the crime and abhorrence which it creates in the mind of the Court are, however, factors which also tend to militate causing, fair trial of the case in such case.	ANALYSIS
The Court must therefore, guard against a possibility of being influenced in its judgment by sentiment, rather than by objectivity and judicial considerations, while evaluating evidence.	ANALYSIS
 10. On the above principles of law, let me proceed to tender my findings on the above aspect as to whether the prosecution has led cogent evidence to establish the fact of kidnap for ransom, so as to warrant a conviction for the above purpose.	ANALYSIS
 11. There is no dispute that, the victim child namely'; Bishal is a minor boy, aged about 6 to 7 years.	ANALYSIS
This has also been established from the side of the prosecution by the evidence of his parents namely' PWs2 and 5 and the injury requisition vide Ext3.	ANALYSIS
 There is also no dispute that, at the relevant time, Bishal was staying with his parents at Qr. No. E/67, Sector9, Rourkela and his parents are his lawful guardian. 12.	ANALYSIS
So, it is to be seen whether on the relevant day, the victim child was taken away from their above quarter by the present accused.	ANALYSIS
 13. The word "take" means to cause to go, to escort or to get into possession.	ANALYSIS
The prosecution has also to prove that the accused had some active part in the child leaving his parents house.	ANALYSIS
Here in this case, the victim being only 6 to 7 years old, there is absolutely no chance that, he left his father"s house voluntarily or knowingly or having capacity to know that what he is doing.	ANALYSIS
So, it is from the evidence on record, the Court has to form an opinion as regards to the alleged taking away of the child.	ANALYSIS
 14. PW1 is the informant as well as the grand father of the victim child.	ANALYSIS
It is stated by him that, on the relevant day, while he was in duty, he received a telephone call from their house about the kidnap of his grand son.	ANALYSIS
So, they searched for the little boy, but, could not get any clue, for which the matter was reported at Sector7 PS.	ANALYSIS
Further, according to this witness, his daughter in law made attempt to contact the present accused over telephone, but, the accused did not respond to such calls.	ANALYSIS
However, on the same day in between 8.30 to 9.30 PM they received information that, their grand son, and the accused are in Birmitrapur policestation.	ANALYSIS
Accordingly, they went to Birmitrapur policestation and found this accused with their grand son there at the policestation and their grand son was handed over to them by Birmitrapur police.	ANALYSIS
Though, this witness was declared hostile as he did not attempt to have lodged any FIR, but, his evidence can be relied if there are some other materials on the basis of which the said evidence can be corroborated.	ANALYSIS
More so, that part of the evidence of PW1 as contained in examination in chief remains unshaken even after cross examination, is fully reliable, even though he has been declared hostile.	ANALYSIS
(See DevrajVersusState of Chhatisgarh, 2016 SAR (Criminal) 946).	ANALYSIS
15. The evidence of PW2, the mother of the victim discloses that, suspecting the role of the accused in the kidnapping of their son, because of on that day he had visited their house and both of them were missing from 7.00 PM.	ANALYSIS
She telephoned the accused and the accused replied her that, he is at Birmitrapur with their son.	ANALYSIS
Further, according to PW2, thereafter her husband went to Birmitrapur and brought their son from the police station where the accused was detained by police with their son.	ANALYSIS
This witness specifically claimed that, it is the accused, who kidnapped their son without their consent and knowledge.	ANALYSIS
 16. PW5, the father of the victim told to the Court that, on the relevant day, the accused being his brother in law (wife elder sister's husband) had come to their house and at about 6.00 PM, their son was found missing so also the accused.	ANALYSIS
So, he contacted the present accused, who informed him that he had left his son in a shop.	ANALYSIS
But, the child was not traced out in spite of search in the nearby shops.	ANALYSIS
When the accused was contacted again, his mobile phone was switched off.	ANALYSIS
 But, after sometime, the accused informed his wife over telephone that, he has taken their son and the victim will be handed over after 9.30 PM.	ANALYSIS
After sometime, he contacted the accused as well as a Autorickshaw driver present near him and informed the Autorickshaw driver that the accused had kidnapped their son.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter, the Autorickshaw driver took the accused along with their son to Birmitrapur policestation and handed over them to police and from policestation, their son was rescued.	ANALYSIS
 17. It is stated by PWs3,4 and 6 that, they got information about the kidnap of Bishal from his father and subsequently came to know that the child has been rescued by Birmitrapur policestation.	ANALYSIS
Accordingly, they proceeded to Birmitrapur policestation where police handed over the child to them.	ANALYSIS
18. PW7, the IO of this case stated that, after getting information about such kidnap, he deputed his staff to different places for search of the boy and during such search, he got clue that, accused with the kidnapped child were proceeding towards Birmitrapur in an Autorickshaw.	ANALYSIS
So, he traced out the Autorickshaw driver namely; Balbig Singh and on examination could know that, a person along with a child who was crying and having fever were going in his Autorickshaw and suspecting the activities of the elderly persons, with the help of an other Auto driver, he took them to Birmitrapur police station and handed over them to police.	ANALYSIS
Further, according to this witness after getting such information he proceeded to Birmitrapur policestation with the father of the child, identified the accused and his son there, and thereafter he brought the victim child as well as the accused to their police station and arrested the accused in connection with this case.	ANALYSIS
 19. PW8, is the then ASI of police, Birmitrapur PS before whom the accused with the child were produced by the Autorickshaw driver.	ANALYSIS
 According to him, on the relevant day, in absence of their IIC, while he was at PS, a Autorickshaw driver brought a person along with a child to the policestation.	ANALYSIS
By that time, the child was crying.	ANALYSIS
So, he asked the above person his identity to which he disclosed his name to be Ujwal Sahu ( the present accused).	ANALYSIS
Further, according to him, he then collected the telephone number of the father of the child and informed him about the matter.	ANALYSIS
The father of the child then arrived at Birmitrapur police station with the Police Officer of Sector7 PS and took the child with them.	ANALYSIS
This witness also identified the present accused in the dock.	ANALYSIS
 20. Thus, scrutinising the above ocular evidence, though it appears that, none of them has seen the accused while taking the child from their house, but, from their statements, which are very clear, cogent and reliable, the following facts can be said to have been well established. (a) On the relevant day, the accused had come to the quarter of PW1 at Sector9, Rourkela; (b) at about 7.00 PM, both the accused and the victim child were found missing from the above quarter; (c) after such missing, the family members searched for the child and the accused in the locality including local shops, but, in vain.	ANALYSIS
 (d) suspecting the present accused to have kidnapped their son, the mother of the child telephoned him and the accused replied that he is at Birmitrapur with their son (e) later on, the father of the child also contacted the present accused over telephone to which the accused replied that he had left their son in a shop; (f) after it the mobile phone of the accused was switched off and (g) in course of search of the missing child, Sector7 police got information that, a person was taking a child towards Birmitrapur in a Autorickshaw.	ANALYSIS
 (h) the IO traced out the above Autorickshaw driver and on examination could know that, suspecting the activities of thepresent accused, the child and the accused were handed over to Birmitrapur police by him with the help of some other Autorickshaw drivers.	ANALYSIS
 (i) after the child was handed over to Birmitrapur police, the father of the child was informed about it and thereafter P.Ws3,4,5 and 6 along with the police officer of Sector7 PS went to Birmitrapur PS where the child along with the present accused were handed over to them. 21.	ANALYSIS
So it is now to be seen whether from the above established facts and pieces of circumstantial evidence, the present accused can be connected with the alleged kidnap.	ANALYSIS
 22. The principle how the circumstances be considered and weighed are well settled and summed up in Sharada Biridi Chand Sarada VersusState of Maharashtra (194) 4 SCC 116 as under.	PRE_RELIED
 (1) The circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.	ANALYSIS
 It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned " must or should" and not "may be "established.	ANALYSIS
There is not only a grammatical, but, a legal distinction between " may be proved" and " must be or should be proved" as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade and anotherVersus State of Maharashtra, (1973) 2 SCC 793 where the observations were made : " Certainly, it is primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a Court can convict and the mental distance between "may be" and "must be" is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions	PRE_RELIED
.: (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty.	PRE_RELIED
 (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency.	PRE_RELIED
 (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.	PRE_RELIED
 23. In the present case, the circumstance which has been well established by the prosecution clearly indicates that, on the relevant day, the accused had come to the house of the informant and he along with the victim were found missing from the evening of that day and while the accused was moving in a suspicious manner at Birmitrapur with the child, he was handed over to police along with the child by some local Auto drivers.	ANALYSIS
During such period, he was contacted over telephone by the parents of the victim and during such conversation, he admitted to have taken away their son and on some occasion, he even stated to have left their son in a shop.	ANALYSIS
 24. Thus, I am of the opinion that, the oral evidence as well as the circumstantial evidence established by the prosecution have formed a complete chain with a clearly finding that, the present accused took away the child up to Birmitrapur from their house without the consent and knowledge of his lawful guardian and no other conclusion suggesting the innocence of the accused appears to be reasonable or justified.	ANALYSIS
 25. It is the settled principle of law that, in determining whether a person takes a minor out of the lawful keeping of its guardian, the distance is immaterial.	ANALYSIS
Even if a minor was taken for distance of 20 or 30 yards, it would amount to taking him out of the keeping of his lawful guardian within the meaning of offence of kidnap.	ANALYSIS
(AIR 1968 Punjab 439) (1995 Criminal Law Journal 581).	ANALYSIS
 26. So now it is to be seen whether there was demand of ransom or not after such kidnap.	ANALYSIS
On perusal of the evidence on record, it reveals that, neither the parents of the victim nor any other witness examined on behalf of prosecution have whispered about the demand of ransom by the present accused.	ANALYSIS
 27. So, when the kidnap of the child is well established, but, there is no proof of ransom by the present accused and there is also nothing on record even to prove prima facie that, threatening was given to any of the family members of the victim to pay ransom, I think, the accused is to be held guilty U/s. 363 IPC and not U/s. 364A IPC.	RATIO
( See Satyendra SinghVersusState of Rajsthan, 2007, Criminal Law Journal 3997 Raj.) 28.	RATIO
Thus, accused Ujawal Sahoo is established to have committed the offence U/s. 363 IPC instead of Section 364A IPC. 29	RATIO
. In the result, I hold accused Ujawal Sahoo guilty U/s. 363 IPC and convicted him thereunder.	RPC
 Additional Sessions Judge, Rourkela.	NONE
 Judgment transcribed to my dictation and corrected by me.Pronounced in open Court on this the 23rd day of December, 2016.Given under my hand and seal of this Court.	NONE
 Additional Sessions Judge, Rourkela.	NONE
30. In a case of such nature and when a little child has been kidnapped, it does not warrant any sympathy whatsoever.	ANALYSIS
So, it is not desirable to release the convict on Probation of Offenders Act.	ANALYSIS
 HEARING ON THE QUESTION OF SENTENCE.	NONE
31. Heard the learned Additional Public Prosecutor and the advocate on behalf of the convict, on the question of sentence at length.	NONE
 Learned advocate for the convict urged before me that, the convict is a young boy, aged about 25 years.	NONE
Therefore, the Court should take a lenient view, while awarding punishment.	NONE
 On the contrary, learned Additional Public Prosecutor submitted that, the Court may award punishment strictly in accordance with law, considering the nature and gravity of the offences.	ARG_PETITIONER
 In the case of Sebak PerumarVersusState of Tamilnadu, 1991, 3 SCC 471, the Hon'ble Apex Court has cautioned that, undue sympathy to impose indequate sentence would do more harm to the Justice delivery system to undermine the public confidence in the efficacy of law and society could not long endure under serious threats.	PRE_RELIED
It is therefore the duty of every Court to award proper sentence, having regard to the nature of the offence and the manner in which it was executed or committed etc.	RATIO
 In view of the above settled legal position and considering the nature and gravity of the offences committed by the present convict and the manner in which it was committed, I sentence the convict to suffer Simple Imprisonment for three years and to pay a fine of Rs.3,000/ (three thousand), in default, Simple Imprisonment for two months more for the offence U/s. 363 IPC. 	RPC
A sum of Rs. 2,000/(two thousand) be given to the victim child towards compensation, out of the fine amount, if realized.	RPC
The UTP period, if any, be set off as per the provision of Section 428 of the Cr.P.C. Pronounced the sentence in the open Court, on this the 23rd day of December, 2016.	RPC
Given under my hand and seal of this Court.	NONE
 Additional Sessions Judge, Rourkela.	NONE
List of witnesses examined for the Prosecution: PW 1    Tetru Sahu. PW 2    Pilabati Sahu. PW 3    Amit Kumar Sahu.	NONE
PW 4    Abhaya Pattnaik.	NONE
 PW 5    Subash Ch.Sahu.	NONE
 PW 6    Subodh Sahu.	NONE
 PW 7    Pradipta Kumar Das.	NONE
 PW 8    Bhikshu Ch.Bhaisal.	NONE
List of witnesses examined for the Defence: DW 1    Nandu Yadav.DW 2    Barekeswar Oda.	NONE
List of documents marked for the prosecution: Ext. 1  FIR.Ext. 1/1 Signature of PW 1 on Ext. 1 Ext. 1/2 Endorsement with signature of the then IIC.	NONE
Ext. 1/3 Formal FIR.	NONE
Ext. 1/4.	NONE
Signature of PW7 on Ext1.	NONE
Ext. 1/5 Signature of PW1 on Ext1.Ext. 2  Spot map.Ext. 2/1 Signature of PW 7 on Ext. 2.Ext3    Medical requisition.Ext3/1 Signature of PW7 on Ext3. List of documents marked for the defence:	NONE
Nil List of Material Objects.	NONE
Nil Additional Sessions Judge, Rourkela.	NONE
