IN THE GAUHATI HIGH COURT	PREAMBLE
THE HIGH COURT OF ASSAM, NAGALAND, MEGHALAYA, MANIPUR,             TRIPURA, MIZORAM AND ARUNACHAL PRADESH.	PREAMBLE
                              SHILLONG BENCH.	PREAMBLE
                    Criminal Appeal No. (SH) 07/20101.Shri Dwik Lyngdoh,Son of (L) Easting Shanpru,R/o Village Umtholong, West Khasi Hills,Meghalaya.2.Shri Santibok Kharnaior,Son of Shri Dwik Lyngdoh,R/o Village Umtholong, West Khasi Hills,Meghalaya.                                       : Appellants        -vs-1.State of Meghalaya,through the Superintendent of Police,West Khasi Hills District, Meghalaya.2.The Officer-in-Charge,Mairang Police Station,West Khasi Hills District, Meghalaya.	PREAMBLE
: Respondents                                BEFORE                   THE HON’BLE	PREAMBLE
MR JUSTICE AMITAVA ROY	PREAMBLE
THE HON’BLE MR JUSTICE K MERUNOFor the Appellants                :        Mr KC Gautam,                                           Mr D Gangte,                                           Ms DCM Sangma, AdvsFor the Respondents               :        Mr K Khan,	PREAMBLE
Addl.PPDate of hearing	PREAMBLE
                  :	PREAMBLE
       28.09.2011	PREAMBLE
Date of Judgment & Order          :        30.09.2011                             JUDGMENT AND ORDER (Amitava Roy, J)	PREAMBLE
In challenge is the judgment and order dated 28.07.2010 passed by Smti B. Giri, the learned Additional District & Session Judge / Additional Deputy Commissioner, Fast Track Court, East Khasi Hills District in F.T.C. (S) 25/2006 convicting the appellants herein under Section 302/34 IPC and sentencing them to suffer imprisonment for life.	RLC
2.      	NONE
We have heard Mr KC Gautam, the learned counsel for the appellants and Mr K Khan, the learned Addl. PP, Govt. of Meghalaya.	NONE
3.      	FAC
An FIR was lodged on 13.08.2001 by Mrs Makdalin Kharthangmaw with the Officer-in-Charge Mairang PS, West Khasi Hills, Meghalaya alleging that on 11.08.2001 at about 7:00 PM three miscreants with their faces covered had barged into their house and murdered her father i.e. Shri Skhin Basiawmoit in presence of her mother Smti Skhair Kharthangmaw.	FAC
Mairang PS Case No. 13(8) 2001 was registered under Section 302/34 IPC and on the conclusion of the investigation, charge-sheet was submitted against the appellant and others.	FAC
The learned trial court framed charge against the appellants under Section 302/34 IPC to which they pleaded “not guilty” and claimed to be tried.	FAC
At the trial prosecution, examined, eleven witnesses including the Investigating Officer and the Doctor who had performed the postmortem on the dead body.	FAC
The appellants were thereafter examined under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (for short hereinafter referred to CrPC) in course of which they pleaded their innocence and denied the allegations brought against them.	FAC
They also examined one witness namely: Shri Khrim Pathaw.	FAC
 4.      The learned trial court on a consideration of all materials on record and after hearing the learned counsel appearing for the parties convicted and sentenced the appellants as indicated above.	FAC
5.      Before adverting to the rival arguments, it would be apt to outline a sketch of the evidence on record PW	FAC
1, Shri Roslang Kharthangmaw, son of the deceased stated on oath that on the date of occurrence while he was returning from the field, he met three persons running towards the same direction and on enquiry they told him that there was some commotion from the place where they were coming.	FAC
The witness stated that it was dark by then and when he reached home he found his father lying on the floor in a pool of blood.	FAC
The witness then recalled that out of the three persons whom he met one was Santibok (appellant No.2) whom he recognized by his voice.	FAC
The witness also mentioned that his younger sister told him that some people had come to their house and assaulted their father.	FAC
In cross examination by the defence this witness could not recollect as to whether these three persons were masked or nor as it was dark.	FAC
He conceded that he could not recognize the other two persons but could identify Santibok by his voice.	FAC
He further stated that his father was dead by the time he had reached home. 6	FAC
.      PW-2	FAC
Dr G.B.M. Mihsil who had performed the postmortem examination on the dead body on 12.08.2001 stated to have found the following injuries thereon: ” 1. An incised wound on the left side of the epicastric (Upper part of the Abdomen) region horizontal in nature size 1 ½ x 1x ¼ .                 2.	FAC
An incised wound on the left side of the umbilical region extending from the lower side of the epicastric region to upper left llliac fossa region (above the groin) it is vertical in nature and the size is 8’ x 6” x 6”	FAC
from this wound the stomach and small intestine protruded.	FAC
3. An incised wound in the left lnguinal region (below the groin) which is vertical in nature and the size is 3”x1x ¼ “.	FAC
 The witness opined that death was due to shock as a result of severe hemorrhage caused by sharp weapons.	FAC
She also stated that considering the type of injuries chances of survival and recovery was not there especially when the wound No.2 was fatal.	FAC
She proved the postmortem report with Exhibit 1.	FAC
In cross- examination though she reaffirmed that the injuries were caused by sharp weapon she could not state as to whether all had been caused by the same weapon.	FAC
 7.      PW-3 Smti Naralian Mary Nampui stated on oath that at the relevant point of time she was Addl. District Magistrate, Mairang Sub-Division, Mairang and had recorded the statement on 12.09.2001 of Magdelin Kharthangmaw (PW-5) and Veronica Kharthangmaw (PW-6) and others.	FAC
She also stated that on 17.09.2001, she had recorded the confessional statement of the accused/appellant Santibok Kharnaior after completing all the requirements under Section 164 CrPC.	FAC
She also proved the recorded statements as Exhibit 2 to 7.	FAC
In the cross-examination, the witness, however, conceded that the accused/appellant Santibok Kharnaior in his confessional statement referred to the incident as narrated to him by one U Sing. 	FAC
8.      PW-4 Shri K.L. Nongbri was the EAC and posted initially at Williamnagar and thereafter at Mairang at the relevant point of time and had recorded the statement of Shri Donrang Ryntathiang (PW-8) which he proved as Exhibit 8.	FAC
He referred to the statement of Shri Donrang Ryntathinag, that on 11.08.2001 on his way back from the football ground he met three people two of whom he recognized as Santibok and Dwik.	FAC
Shri Donrang Ryntathiang also stated that in the following morning when he heard that Mr Skin was dead, he had suspected that Santibok and Dwik had killed him.	FAC
9.      PW-5 Smti Magdolin Khartnagmaw stated on oath that on 11.08.2001 at about 6:30 PM while she was at home along with her parents and children, three persons entered their house and caught hold of her father who was then repairing a torch light.	FAC
At this, her father hit back one of them with a hammer and she also struck them with a wooden stool.	FAC
At this, one of the miscreants instigated the others to kill her.	FAC
The witness stated that by his voice she recognized the person to be Santibok.	FAC
She stated that the persons then stabbed her father with a knife on which he fell down and the assailants then ran away.	FAC
The witness stated that she could not see the face of these persons when they entered their house because their faces were covered and except Santibok she could identify none.	FAC
She stated that the accused/appellant Santibok had been residing near her house.	FAC
The witness also referred to an incident on 01.05.2001 where the accused/appellant Santibok along with other four relatives had come to their house at the dead of night and wished to see her father.	FAC
Santibok and others returned the next morning as they could not meet the father of the witness as he was asleep.	FAC
The witness stated that after her father had fallen with the injury, he along with others had gone to search for a vehicle to take him to the hospital but eventually the injured expired within a short time thereafter.	FAC
She stated at that time her father had stopped talking.	FAC
In the cross-examination, this witness referred also to another incident of about 10 years back when the accused/appellant No.1 with his wife had come to their house alleging that the latter was ill due to black magic practiced by her father (deceased).	FAC
The witness stated that the assailants had taken away the Dao at the time of leaving the place of occurrence.	FAC
She proved the FIR filed by her as Exhibit 9.	FAC
She also proved her statement before the Magistrate under Section 164 CrPC as Exhibit 2. 10.     PW-6	FAC
Smti Beronica Kharthangmaw stated that on 11.08.2001 at about 6:30 PM hearing a pandemonium from her father’s house she rushed thereto and on the way saw one man coming out therefrom and running towards the road.	FAC
 When she reached near her father’s house, she saw two other men coming out from the compound thereof.	FAC
The witness stated that she could not recognize the three persons as it was dark, but stated that from the manner of walking and outer appearance, the first person that she met was Santibok.	FAC
By the same measure she identified one of the two persons whom she met on the way to be Dwik.	FAC
The witness claimed that she could identify these two persons by their walk, height and appearance as she used to meet them almost every day.	FAC
She also deposed that Santibok and Dwik were her negihbours.	FAC
She proved her statement before the Magistrate under Section 164 CrPC as Exhibit 3.	FAC
She emphasized that the accused/appellants were responsible for the murder of her father as for long past they had been charging him of practicing black magic.	FAC
In the cross-examination, this witness could not ascertain as to whether the faces of the three persons, whom she had met on her way to her father house, had been covered or not as it was dark.	FAC
She, however, reiterated that though it was a dark night, she could recognize the two accused/appellants by their height, appearance and gait.	FAC
 11.     PW-7 Transfer Kurbah, the son-in-law of the deceased proved his statement under Section 164 CrPC as Exhibit 4.	FAC
He identified the two accused/appellants to be the residents of Nongthliew.	FAC
 12.     PW-8 Shri Donrang Ryntathiang testified that on 11.08.2001 while he was returning home after watching a football match, he met three persons including Dwik and Santibok.	FAC
He stated that at that point of time, they were coming out of the compound of the house of the deceased.	FAC
He also proved his statement under Section 164 CrPC as Exhibit 7.	FAC
In the cross-examination, he claimed to have recognized the two accused/appellants on 11.08.2001.	FAC
He further stated that when he met them their faces were not covered, but it was dark then.	FAC
He mentioned that at the time when he saw and recognized these two accused/appellants the distance between them was only one feet.	FAC
 13.     PW-9 Shri Kran Kharthangmaw, brother of the deceased stated that on 11.08.2001, he (deceased) was killed by three persons out of whom he knew one Dwik, the accused appellant No.1.	FAC
In the cross-examination he admitted that he did not see the incident.	FAC
He also expressed his ignorance about enmity between the accused appellant No.1 and the deceased.	FAC
 14.     PW-10 Shri Shakespeare Kharjana, deposed that having coming to learn that on 11.08.2001 about the incident, he as the Village Public Announcer took necessary steps amongst others to inform the Police.	FAC
He proved the inquest report Exhibit 10. 15.     PW-11	FAC
Shri H.S. Mawlieh the Investigating Officer, stated that on 12.08.2011, on receiving the information that Skin was murdered, he made an entry in the General Diary and proceeded for investigation.	FAC
He conducted the inquest on the dead body as per Exhibit 10.	FAC
The witness stated that in the course of the investigation, he arrested the accused/appellants and one Roland Lyngdoh on 10.09.2001.	FAC
He stated to have received the FIR on 15.08.2001.	FAC
He admitted that no weapon was seized.	FAC
He, however, exhibited the wearing apparels of the deceased as Material Exhibit I, II & III.	FAC
In the cross-examination, he mentioned that the accused/appellant Santibok had given a confessional statement before the Magistrate.	FAC
 16.     DW -1	FAC
Khrim Pathaw stated on oath that on 11.08.2001 there was a football match in the village.	FAC
After the football match, he had returned home along with the accused/appellant Santibok in the evening.	FAC
He stated that the accused/appellant Dwik then had gone to the market at Shillong and had returned later in the evening at about 8:30 PM.	FAC
He expressed that he did not know if there was any hostility between the accused/appellant and the deceased.	FAC
 17.     Mr KC Gautam has emphatically argued that the FIR having been lodged after 48 hours of the incident and that too without any explanation, the prosecution case on this ground alone ought to have been rejected as unreliable.	ARG_PETITIONER
This is coupled with the fact that though the wife of the deceased at the time of filing of the FIR was present, she was not examined by the prosecution.	ARG_PETITIONER
The learned counsel urged that if PW-5 had really identified the accused/appellant No.2, there was no conceivable reason to omit his name in the FIR.	ARG_PETITIONER
PW-5 and PW-6 having failed to identify the accused/appellants their evidence besides being partisan ought to be rejected.	ARG_PETITIONER
 18.     He argued further that as the witnesses contradicted each other qua their statements under Section 164 CrPC, the prosecution had miserably failed to prove the charge against the accused/appellants.	ARG_PETITIONER
Mr KC Gautam urged that the statement of the accused/appellant No.2 under Section 164 CrPC being apparently non-culpatory, the same cannot be taken note of in support of the charge.	ARG_PETITIONER
He argued further that as no weapon of assault had been seized, the prosecution case is wholly untrustworthy and the impugned judgment and order if allowed to stand will result in gross in-justice.	ARG_PETITIONER
18.A The learned Addl. PP as against this has contended that a conjoint reading of the PW-1, PW-2, PW-5, PW-6 & PW-8 proved the charge against the accused/appellant to the hilt and no interference with the conviction and sentence is called for.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Drawing the attention of this Court to Section 9 and 156 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (hereinafter referred to as the Act), Mr Khan has sought to impress upon this Court that the evidence of the prosecution witnesses having knit a set of unimpeachable circumstances unerringly pointing to the guilt of the accused/appellants, the impugned judgment and order cannot be faulted with.	ARG_RESPONDENT
To reinforce his submission he relied on the decisions of the Apex Court in Ravi Kumar-Vs.-State of Punjab in 2005 9 SCC 315 and Dalbir Singh –Vs.- State of Haryana in 2008 11 SCC 425.	ARG_RESPONDENT
We have carefully considered the materials on record and the arguments advanced.	ANALYSIS
It is patent from the testimony of the Investigating Officer that even before the FIR had been received by the Police, probe into the incident had been initiated after making a GD entry of the information received.	ANALYSIS
In that view of the matter, the FIR lodged 48 hours after the incident is not the first in point of time.	ANALYSIS
As it is an FIR is not substantive piece.	ANALYSIS
Thus the omission to mention the name(s) of the accused/appellants in the FIR, in the opinion of this Court does not per se strike at the root of the prosecution case.	ANALYSIS
 20.     The evidence of PW-1, PW-5, PW-6 and PW-8 when considered as a whole leave no manner of doubt about the identification of the accused/appellants as members of the group of three who had trespassed into the house of the deceased and had assaulted him with a knife.	ANALYSIS
Whereas PW-5 was an eyewitness of the incident identified the accused/appellant No.2, PW-6 has assertively stated to have recognized the accused/appellants to be amongst the three persons coming out from the compound of her father’s house immediately after the incident.	ANALYSIS
These three persons in a group were encountered by PW-1 and PW-8 at or about the time of incident and were found hurrying away from the place of occurrence.	ANALYSIS
Though the weapon of assault i.e. the knife as referred to by PW-5 could not be retrieved, the evidence of the Doctor as well as the postmortem report not only prove that the dead body bore three incised wounds caused by a sharp cutting weapon, the ocular version of PW-5 about the assault by a knife stood corroborated thereby.	ANALYSIS
The statements made by the PW-5 and PW-6 in particular under Section 164 CrPC are also substantially in harmony with their evidence at the trial.	ANALYSIS
The minor contradictions in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, in our opinion do not materially affect its case on merit.	ANALYSIS
Non- examination of the wife of the deceased is also not fatal, the charge having been proved otherwise.	ANALYSIS
A bare reading of the statement of the accused/appellants under Section 164 CrPC does not show any evidence to conclude that his conviction on the basis thereof is permissible in law.	ANALYSIS
The evidence of the prosecution witnesses however read in conjunction build a chain of circumstances in identifying the accused/appellants to be assailant without any matter of doubt.	ANALYSIS
 21.     The decision of Ravi Kumar (Supra) deals with unusual and unexplained delay in the filing of the FIR.	PRE_RELIED
The learned Lordship’s had observed further that in the event where ocular evidence is cogent and credible, medical evidence to the contrary cannot corrode the evidentiary value of the former.	PRE_RELIED
 22.     In Dalbir Singh (Supra), the Hon’ble Apex Court propounded that the prosecution witnesses can identify a person with whom he may be fairly acquainted with or from his voice, gait, features etc.	PRE_RELIED
The propositions enunciated in these decisions provide ample support to the prosecution case in the present factual setting.	ANALYSIS
23.     	RPC
We have perused the impugned judgment and order and for the reasons recorded herein above, we are in agreement with the ultimate conclusion recorded therein.	RPC
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed.	RPC
 JUDGE                                          JUDGE Lam	NONE
