IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURUDATED THIS THE 12TH DAY OF MARCH 2020          BEFORE	PREAMBLE
THE HON'BLE Dr. JUSTICE H.B. PRABHAKARA SASTRY	PREAMBLE
      CRIMINAL APPEAL No.116 OF 2014	PREAMBLE
BETWEEN:	PREAMBLE
Mrs. ShivammaW/o.Mr. Manjunath	PREAMBLE
Aged 37 years	PREAMBLE
Resident ofChimanahalli Village,Chintamani TalukPIN: 563 125.                                                                  ...Appellant(By Mr. P.D. Subrahmanya, panel advocate ofHigh Court Legal Services Committee)AND:State of Karnataka               ...Respondentby Chintamani Rural PoliceChintamani TalukThrough the State PublicProsecutor, High Court BuildingDr. Ambedkar Veedhi,Bangalore  560 001.(By Sri.Showri H.R., HCGP)                                              ****         	PREAMBLE
This Criminal Appeal is filed under Section 374(2) ofCr.P.C praying to set aside the judgment of conviction andorder on sentence dated 21-01-2014 passed by thelearned Principal District and Sessions Judge,Chikkaballapura, in Sessions Case No.111/2008, convictingthe appellant/accused No.1 for the offences punishableunder Sections 342 and 326 read with Section 34 of IPCand sentencing to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for sixmonths and to pay fine of `1,000/- and in default ofpayment of fine to undergo rigorous imprisonment for onemonth for the offence punishable under Section 342 of IPCand further sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonmentfor five years and to pay fine of `5,000/- in default ofpayment of fine to undergo rigorous imprisonment for oneyear for the offence punishable under Section 326 of IPC.         This Criminal Appeal coming on for Hearing, this day,the Court delivered the following:                             J U D G M E N T	PREAMBLE
 The present appellant as accused No.1 was tried and later convicted by the learned Principal District and Sessions Judge at Chikkaballapura, (hereinafter referred to as `Trial Court' for brevity), in Sessions Case No.111/2008, by its judgment of conviction and order on sentence dated 21-01-2014, for the offences punishable under Sections 342 and 326 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as `IPC' for brevity) and was sentenced accordingly.	RLC
It is against the said judgment of conviction and order on sentence, the appellant/accused No.1 has preferred this appeal. 2.	FAC
The summary of the case of the prosecution is that, accused No.1 is the wife of the complainant (PW-1) Manjunatha, and had developed illicit relationship with accused No.2.	FAC
On 30-04-2008, in the evening at about 8 o'clock, when the complainant returned to his home, he found the presence of accused No.2 along with his wife (accused No.1) in his house.	FAC
Though accused No.2 left the house, after arrival of complainant, but on the same night, which was on 01-05-2008 at 03:00 hours, once again accused No.2 went to the house of the complainant and got the door opened and when questioned by the complainant as to why he had come once again in that odd hour, the said accused No.2 joined by none else than the wife of the complainant closed the mouth of the complainant, dragged him to the cattle shed which was adjacent to their hut and after tying his hands and legs to a pole there, removed his nicker (half pant) and using a machete and a knife, amputated his penis shaft and also inflicted few more injuries on other parts of his body, thereby, attempted to cause his death.	FAC
The complaint was lodged by the complainant himself, while under treatment in the Hospital which was registered in the respondent Station Crime No.81/2008 against both accused No.1 (present appellant) and accused No.2, for the offences punishable under Sections 342 and 307 read with Section 34 of IPC.	FAC
After completing investigation, the respondent Police filed a charge sheet for the said offences.	FAC
The charge was framed against the accused for the offences punishable under Sections 342 and 307 read with Section 34 of IPC. 3.	FAC
Since the accused pleaded not guilty, in order to prove the charges leveled against the accused, the prosecution examined in all fourteen witnesses from PW-1 to PW-14 and got marked documents from Exhibits P-1 to P-33.	FAC
Material Objects from MO-1 to MO-4 were marked from the prosecution side.	FAC
 Neither any witnesses were examined nor any documents were marked as exhibits from the side of the accused.	FAC
4. After hearing both side, the Trial Court by its impugned judgment dated 21-01-2014, acquitted the accused No.1 of the offence punishable under Section 307 read with Section 34 of IPC, however, convicted the appellant/accused No.1 for the offences punishable under Sections 326 and 342 read with Section 34 of IPC and sentenced her accordingly.	FAC
It is against the said judgment of conviction and order on sentence, the accused No.1 has preferred this appeal. 5.	FAC
The trial Court records were called for and the same are placed before this Court.	FAC
 6. Since apart from the present appellant (accused No.1), accused No.2 has also been convicted under the same judgment passed by the Trial Court for the same offences, this Court, when specifically asked learned counsels from both side as to the filing of any appeal by accused No.2 against the impugned judgment of conviction, both the learned counsels pleaded that they have no information, as such, they submitted that no such appeal is pending.	FAC
Accordingly, the matter was proceeded further.	NONE
 7. The appellant/accused No.1 earlier was being represented by her counsel.	FAC
However, when the matter was listed for final hearing, the said learned counsel for the appellant had remained absent.	FAC
Considering the fact that the appeal is of the year 2014 and causing further delay in disposing of the matter was not in the best interest of justice, this Court by its detailed order dated 04-03-2020 appointed learned counsel Mr. P.D. Subrahmanya, a panel advocate from the Legal Services Committee of this Court, to appear on behalf of the appellant and conduct the case of the appellant in this matter.	RLC
Accordingly, the said learned counsel from the panel of Legal Services Committee of this Court is representing the appellant in the matter.	FAC
 8. Heard arguments of the learned panel advocate from the Legal Services Committee of this Court for the appellant and the learned High Court Government Pleader for the respondent State.	NONE
9. Perused the material placed before this Court including the impugned judgment and also Trial Court records. 10.	NONE
For the sake of convenience, the parties would be referred to as per their ranks before the Trial Court.	NONE
 11. The points that arise for my consideration in this appeal are:- 1] Whether the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that on 01-05-2008 at about 03:00 hours, the appellant/accused No.1 joined by accused No.2 closed the mouth of the complainant, dragged him to the cattle shed which was adjacent to their hut and after tying his hands and legs to a pole there, removed his nicker and using a machete and a knife, amputated his penis shaft and also inflicted few more injuries on other parts of his body and thereby has committed the offences punishable under Sections 326 and 342 read with Section 34 of IPC? 2]	ISSUE
Whether the judgment of conviction and order on sentence deserves any interference at the hands of this Court?	ISSUE
12. The undisputed facts from the evidence led by the prosecution is that, the accused No.1 - Smt. Shivamma	FAC
who is the appellant herein is the wife of the complainant cum alleged victim (PW-1  Manjunatha).	FAC
PW-2 - Kumari Shalini who is said to be a minor girl aged about 15 years as on the date of her evidence, is their daughter. PW-3 - Lakshmidevamma is the sister-in-law of the complainant and PW-4 - Lakshmana Reddy is the younger brother of the complainant.	FAC
It is also not in dispute that on 01-05-2008, the complainant sustained injuries including amputation of his penis shaft.	FAC
 In the light of these undisputed facts, the case of the prosecution is that, those injuries sustained by the complainant on the said day including grievous injury of amputation of penis shaft were inflicted by none else than the accused including the present appellant as accused No.1.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, the defence of the accused No.1 is that the complainant had fallen from a coconut tree while plucking coconuts from the tree and had fallen on the fence which included sharp edged zinc sheets and sphere shaped iron rods which have caused the injuries upon him.	ANALYSIS
It is on the said point of whether the injuries found on the complainant were by the act of a human being and if so, by whom, the entire evidence of the production witnesses is required to be analysed.	ANALYSIS
 13. In order to prove the alleged incident of inflicting injuries upon the complainant as the one by none else than the accused No.1, the prosecution mainly relied upon two sets of witnesses.	ANALYSIS
The first set of witnesses is the complainant, his family members and close relatives of the complainant and the second set of witnesses is the residents of the village who are the independent witnesses.	ANALYSIS
 14. The first set of witnesses includes PW-1  Manjunatha who is said to be the complainant and victim in the case; his daughter PW-2  Kumari Shalini, his sister-in-law i.e. PW-3 -Lakshmidevamma. 15.	ANALYSIS
Among the first set of witnesses, PW-1 the victim, in his evidence, has stated that, on the date of incident in the evening at about of 8 0' clock, when he returned home, he saw the accused No.2 near his house.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter the said accused left the place, then he had his dinner.	ANALYSIS
Afterwards what happened he did not know.	ANALYSIS
However, on the next day, he regained conscious in the Hospital.	ANALYSIS
His genital organ was cut and a cut injury was made on the lower bottom of his neck.	ANALYSIS
The accused have thus cut by using a knife on that night.	ANALYSIS
He stated that, it was the accused who have cut the same since he has actually seen it.	ANALYSIS
Accused No.2 made the cut while accused No.1 was holding him.	ANALYSIS
They have also inflicted injuries behind his left shoulder, head and below the neck.	ANALYSIS
The people of the village admitted him to Hospital.	ANALYSIS
Accused No.1 had poured water in the spot of the offence to wash out the blood.	ANALYSIS
Then, he regained conscious and went to his sister-in-law and informed her the details.	ANALYSIS
First, he was shifted to Hospital at Chintamani and from there, to Victoria Hospital at Bengaluru.	ANALYSIS
Police have recorded his statement at Chintamani as per Ex.P-1.	ANALYSIS
He also stated that he was assaulted and caused injuries on the lower part of the neck, head and cut his genital organ using knife and machete.	ANALYSIS
The witness stated that he is seeing the knife at MO-1.	ANALYSIS
Stating that he was wearing a white colour nicker on the said day, he has identified the same at MO-2.	ANALYSIS
He has further stated that his hands and legs were tied with a plastic rope which he identifies at MO-3.	ANALYSIS
Using the same rope, his mouth was also tied as well the ear.	ANALYSIS
The Police have collected soil from the place of the incident and MO-4 is the blood stained mud.	ANALYSIS
The witness stated that accused No.2 had illicit relationship with accused No.1.	ANALYSIS
Since he had questioned that, they have committed this act.	ANALYSIS
In his detailed cross-examination, several suggestions were made about the alleged improvements said to have been made by him in his evidence which were not there in his alleged complaint at Ex.P-1.	ANALYSIS
He has stated that his house includes a hall and a kitchen and these people will be in the hall of the house.	ANALYSIS
He lives with his two children in the said house.	ANALYSIS
 16. PW-2  Kumari Shalini, the daughter of PW-1 as well accused No.1, in her examination-in- chief, except admitting her relationship with PW-1 and accused No.1, has pleaded her ignorance about the alleged incident.	ANALYSIS
Though she stated that in three years, on one day, her father was admitted to a Government Hospital at Chintamani, but the reason for the same was that, he had fallen from a coconut tree sustaining injuries to his head and hands.	ANALYSIS
Since according to prosecution, she being the daughter of the complainant, was aware of the alleged incident as well the alleged illicit relationship of her mother with accused No.2, she was permitted to be treated as hostile and the prosecution was permitted to cross- examine her.	ANALYSIS
However, even in her cross- examination, the prosecution could not get any support from the said witness.	ANALYSIS
The relevant portions of her alleged statement before the Investigating Officer were read over to the witness and confronted to her, but the witness denied that she had given those statements to the Investigating Officer.	ANALYSIS
Those portions of her statement were marked as Exs-P-2, P-3, P-4 and P-5.	ANALYSIS
In her cross-examination from the accused' side, she stated that on the previous night, when her father was admitted to the Hospital by Ashwatha Reddy, her uncle Lakshmana Reddy and Narayana Reddy, it was only herself, her mother and younger brother who were there in the house and her father was lifted from the coconut garden of Erappa Reddy and after changing his clothes, he was taken to the Hospital.	ANALYSIS
 17. PW-3  Lakshmidevamma, the sister-in-law of PW-1 has pleaded her ignorance about the alleged incident.	ANALYSIS
She has even stated that, she does not know about her husband Narayanaswamy and others shifting the complainant for treatment to the Hospital.	ANALYSIS
She also stated that she does not know as to whether Srinivasa Reddy and Lakshmana Reddy had advised accused No.1 about her alleged illicit relationship with accused No.2.	ANALYSIS
According to prosecution, even this witness was also fully aware of the incident, since she was said to have been heard from none else than the injured himself and had given her statement accordingly before the Investigating Officer.	ANALYSIS
Since her evidence was diametrically opposite to the same, she too was permitted to be treated as hostile and the prosecution was permitted to cross-examine her.	ANALYSIS
However, the prosecution could not get any support from her also.	ANALYSIS
The relevant portions of her alleged statement before the Investigating Officer were confronted to the witness and were marked at Ex.P-7, Ex.P-8, Ex.P-9, Ex.P-10 and Ex.P-11.	ANALYSIS
 18. PW-4	ANALYSIS
 Lakshmana Reddy, the younger brother of PW-1 also, according to the prosecution, had heard from none else than the injured complainant himself, but he did not support the case of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
He stated that though he is aware of his brother sustaining bleeding injuries, but he does not know about the alleged incident.	ANALYSIS
When his brother had come near his house, he noticed injures upon his genital organ.	ANALYSIS
Though he questioned as to how the same was caused, the injured did not say anything since he could not able to speak at that time.	ANALYSIS
Then, he, joined by Ashwatha Reddy shifted the injured to the Government Hospital at Chintamani and after getting treatment for a day there, the injured was shifted to Victoria Hospital at Bengaluru where he was in-patient for fifteen days.	ANALYSIS
He further stated that he has not given any statement before the Police and does not even know about the complainant giving complaint before the Police.	ANALYSIS
He also pleaded his ignorance about the alleged illicit relationship between accused No.1 and accused No2.	ANALYSIS
This witness also was treated as hostile.	ANALYSIS
Still, the prosecution in its cross- examination of the witness, could not get any support from him.	ANALYSIS
The portions of his alleged statement before the Investigating Officer were marked at Exs.P-12 and P-13.	ANALYSIS
In his cross-examination from the accused' side, he stated that one Erappa Reddy has got a coconut garden in his village and in order to avoid the problems from the monkeys, he has put fencing of iron rods around the trees.	ANALYSIS
 19. From the above evidence of the complainant himself and the other family members and close relatives of the complainant, what can be seen is that, except the complainant, none else have supported the case of the prosecution including the daughter of the complainant.	ANALYSIS
According to complainant (PW-1), in his house, himself, his wife and two children are residing and they used to sleep in the hall portion of the house.	ANALYSIS
Presuming the same were to be true then, had really the incident of accused No.2 coming to their house and the said accused joined by none else than accused No.1 who is the mother of PW-2 forcibly dragging the complainant to an adjacent cattle shed and assaulting him with knife or machete or both, inflicting grievous and multiple injuries upon him, had taken place then, it was naturally expected of the children of the complainant/injured and accused No.1, more particularly, the elder daughter Kumari Shalini, who was about ten years old as on the said date, getting disturbed and waking up and witnessing the incident.	ANALYSIS
On the contrary, the said witness Shalini, in her evidence, apart from stating that no such alleged incident had taken place, has categorically and specifically stated that, on the night of the incident, her father i.e. PW-1 was not in their house.	ANALYSIS
This, at the threshold, puts an obstacle to believe that, any such incident of anybody entering his house on that night and inflicting multiple injuries upon him as well about the involvement of the accused in the said Act.	ANALYSIS
 20. Secondly, according to the prosecution, after the incident, the complainant some how getting himself released went to the house of his brother Narayanaswamy, where he met his sister-in-law - PW-3 - Lakshmidevamma as well his younger brother - Lakshmana Reddy and informed them about the incident.	ANALYSIS
However as already observed above, the said younger brother Lakshmana Reddy (PW-4) though has stated that, he saw his brother (complainant) sustaining injuries to his genital organ, but it was at about 12 o'clock on 01-05-2008 in the afternoon and that despite he specifically asking the cause for the said injury, the injured brother was unable to speak, as such, he did not tell as to how the said injury had happened.	ANALYSIS
In this way, the very close relative who is none else than the full blood brother of PW-1 has not supported the case of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
The said brother went to the extent of even stating that he does not know about the alleged illicit relationship between accused No.1 and accused No.2.	ANALYSIS
 Similarly PW-3  Lakshmidevamma, the sister- in-law of the injured complainant also has pleaded her ignorance about the alleged incident.	ANALYSIS
She has gone to the extent of telling that she does not even know about the injured sustaining injuries and he being shifted to the Hospital.	ANALYSIS
In this manner, when the very family members involving the daughter, brother and sister-in-law have not supported the case of the prosecution, the sole evidence of PW-1 who claims himself to be the injured has to be analysed very carefully.	ANALYSIS
 21. The second set of witnesses upon whom the prosecution relied upon to prove the alleged guilt against the accused are, PW-5  Reddappa, PW-6  Lakshmana Reddy, and PW-13  Srinivasa Reddy, who, according to the prosecution are the residents of the same village, who had earlier conducted a panchayat in connection with the alleged illicit relationship between accused No.1 and accused No.2 and had advised accused No.1 suitably.	ANALYSIS
Further, on the date of incident and after the incident, while injured PW-1 (complainant) was said to have been going to the house of his brother with bleeding injuries on his body, it is these three witnesses who saw him on the way and heard from the mouth of none else than PW-1 about the incident and the alleged overt act of the accused in inflicting the injuries upon the injured.	ANALYSIS
However, none of these three witnesses have supported the case of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
None of them have stated that they heard about the alleged incident from the complainant.	ANALYSIS
Though PW-5 has stated that in connection with the alleged illicit relationship of accused No.1, a panchayat was held, wherein himself was also one of the panchas and had advised accused No.1 - Shivamma suitably, but he specifically stated that, on the date of the alleged incident, he was not in the village, as such, he does not know the details of the incident.	ANALYSIS
He further stated that after his return, though he came to know that some incident had taken place, since to the doctor at Victoria Hospital at the time of admission of the injured, his telephone number was given by the complainant and the said Doctor had called him over phone, he had only told the Doctor to give suitable treatment to the injured and ensure his living.	ANALYSIS
Despite the prosecution subjecting him to a detailed cross-examination after getting him treated as hostile, still, it could not get any support from him.	ANALYSIS
The witness has even denied that he has given statement before the Investigating Officer as per Exs.P-14 and P-15.	ANALYSIS
In his cross- examination from the accused' side attempts were made to show that, he being a former Chairman of the Mandal Panchayat and a Member in the Committee of the Temple in the village, had asked accused No.1 to vacate their house to enable the extension of the Temple and since she refused to vacate, a false complaint was lodged making use of the complainant who incidentally had sustained injury by falling down from a coconut tree.	ANALYSIS
However, PW-5 did not admit those suggestions as true.	ANALYSIS
Still, the fact remains that, even in his cross-examination, the prosecution could not get any support from the witness.	ANALYSIS
22. The case of PW-6  Lakshmana Reddy is in no way different from the case of PW-5.	ANALYSIS
He was also projected by the prosecution keeping him on the same standing as that of PW-5 and projecting him also to be one of the panchas in the Panchayat and also as a person having heard about the details of the incident immediately after such incident from none else than the injured complainant himself.	ANALYSIS
However, this witness also though stated that with respect to some dispute between the complainant and accused No.1, a panchayat was held, he stated that he has not heard anything from the injured personally.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, he stated that it was the younger brother of the complainant, i.e. Lakshmana Reddy who had told him about the incident stating that, his brother was assaulted and his genital organ was cut, as such, he was admitted to the Hospital.	ANALYSIS
The said Lakshmana Reddy had also told him that it was accused No.1 who had committed the said act.	ANALYSIS
The same thing he had told before the Police.	ANALYSIS
Even if the said statement of PW-6 that he heard from the younger brother of injured complainant, i.e. Lakshmana Reddy is to be considered, still, it cannot be ignored of the fact that, the very Lakshmana Reddy (PW-4), the younger brother of the complainant, as observed above, has totally turned hostile and not at all supported the case of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
When that being the case, the said Lakshmana Reddy telling anything either about the incident or about the alleged role of accused No.1 to PW-6 is ruled out.	ANALYSIS
Further, even in the cross- examination of PW-6, the prosecution could not get any support from him.	ANALYSIS
The witness has denied that he had given the statement before the Investigating Officer as per Exs.P-16 and P-17. 23. PW-13 - Srinivas Reddy has categorically stated that he has neither seen the incident nor stated before the Police that he has seen the incident.	ANALYSIS
On the said date, after he returned to his home, he came to know that injured Manjunatha was admitted to the Hospital.	ANALYSIS
However, he did not go and meet Manjunatha in the Hospital.	ANALYSIS
Similarly the said Manjunatha also did not meet him and stated as to who assaulted him.	ANALYSIS
Even after treating this witness also as hostile, and prosecution was permitted to cross-examine him as well, the prosecution could not get any support from him.	ANALYSIS
The witness has even denied that he has given any statement before the Investigating Officer as per Exs.P-27, P-28, P-29, P-30 and P-31. 24.	ANALYSIS
In this way, the second set of important witnesses, who, according to the prosecution were heard about the incident and the alleged role of the accused in such incident immediately after the alleged incident, that too, from none else than the injured complainant/PW-1 himself, also have not supported the case of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
In such a situation, when none of the family members and none of the independent material witnesses have supported the case of the prosecution, the appreciation of the evidence of PW-1 to ascertain whether this evidence is trustworthy and reliable requires more care and caution.	ANALYSIS
 25. As observed above, PW-1 the victim by a prima facie reading of his evidence appears to have supported the case of the prosecution by telling that it was the accused who had inflicted injuries upon him on the alleged date.	ANALYSIS
However, a careful reading of his evidence would go to show that the witness has stated that after he returned to his house on the date of incident, in the evening, he had his dinner.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter, he does not know what they did.	ANALYSIS
He regained conscious only in the Hospital on the next day morning.	ANALYSIS
The genital organ was cut and lower portion of his neck was also cut.	ANALYSIS
If that were to be the case, then after his dinner, if he was not aware as to what was made to him, then, how come he say that it was the accused who had done it.	ANALYSIS
Secondly, though he (PW-1) has stated that it was the accused who have caused such an act since he has seen it from his own eyes, but, as already observed above, the very same witness has stated that, it is not known as to who had done it.	ANALYSIS
Further, he has also stated that he regained conscious only in the Hospital on the next day morning.	ANALYSIS
However, in the very same evidence at a later stage, he has stated that when accused No.1 poured water to wash out the blood, he gained conscious.	ANALYSIS
Thus, even with respect to his alleged regaining consciousness also, the witness is not sure whether it was in his house only or was it at the Hospital on the next day morning.	ANALYSIS
Thirdly, if his statement that he regained conscious only on the next day morning in the Hospital is accepted and believed, then, the contention of the prosecution that PW-5, PW-6 and PW-13 were the three witnesses who heard about the incident from the mouth of injured complainant himself immediately after the incident and that they had seen the injured victim with bleeding injuries, becomes false by itself.	ANALYSIS
As such, the evidence of those three witnesses, i.e.PW-5, PW-6 and PW-13 that they did not see the injured complainant immediately after the alleged incident becomes more nearer to the truth and believable than the contention of the prosecution that they had seen the injured on that day.	ANALYSIS
 Fourthly, the very same injured witness who has identified the complaint at Ex.P-1 has stated in his complaint at Ex.P-1 that while accused No.2 was holding him firmly, it was accused No.1 - wife who cut the genital organ with a machete (chopper  machhu), however, in his evidence he has put it in the reverse order that it was accused No.1 his wife who was holding him firmly and it was accused No.2 who inflicted injuries upon him by cutting his genital organ.	ANALYSIS
Further, in the complaint he has stated that, the weapon used was a machete whereas in his evidence, he has called the same as a knife.	ANALYSIS
The said contradiction was brought in his cross-examination as well in the cross-examination of the Investigating Officer from the accused side.	ANALYSIS
 Fifthly, in his evidence, PW-1 has stated that he does not know who inflicted injuries upon him and he regained conscious on the next day morning in the Hospital.	ANALYSIS
Later, he said that he himself has seen the occurrence of the incident from his own eyes.	ANALYSIS
However, the said statement that he has seen the incident by himself in his own eyes has not been stated by him in his complaint which was also elicited as an improvement in the cross-examination of this witness as well of Investigation Officer from the accused' side.	ANALYSIS
 Similarly, the evidence of PW-1 that accused No.1 washing the blood stains from the spot and due to which, he regained conscious and also using plastic rope his legs, hands, mouth and ears were all tied by the accused were all shown to be an improvement made by this witness for the first time in his evidence.	ANALYSIS
The said witness (PW-1) has further stated that apart from admitting a suggestion that he always meets the Police and attends to their personal work, has volunteered to say that, he travels with them in their motor cycle and challenges the people in the village.	ANALYSIS
He also stated that, he also works as an agent in securing the Caste Certificates.	ANALYSIS
Further, the witness has also stated that, he helps the Police by signing several mahazars as a panch, as such, the Police attends his personal work neatly.	ANALYSIS
The witness himself volunteered to say that even if he gets a stomach pain, it will be the Police who would admit him to the Hospital.	ANALYSIS
In this way, the witness apart from showing that there are lot of contradictions and improvements in his evidence, has himself shown that, he is getting lot of favours from the complainant Police since he attends to their personal and various other works.	ANALYSIS
In such a circumstance, the sole evidence of PW-1 injured which lacks reliability upon it and appears to be not safe to rely upon, cannot be made the sole basis for convicting the accused No.1 for the alleged offences.	ANALYSIS
26. The remaining witnesses examined by the prosecution, though are not material witnesses, still, they too have not supported the case of the prosecution to take the case of the prosecution any further.	ANALYSIS
 27. PW-7	ANALYSIS
- Ashwatha Reddy, according to the prosecution, was the one who had seen the injured complainant and after hearing from his mouth about the alleged incident, had shifted him to the Government Hospital at Chintamani.	ANALYSIS
However, the said witness though has stated in his evidence that he got admitted the injured to the Government Hospital at Chintamani, but stated that the younger brother of the injured had told him that the injured had fallen from a tree as such, he was required to be taken to the Hospital.	ANALYSIS
Thus, he, joined by said Lakshmana Reddy, the younger brother of the injured shifted the injured complainant to the Hospital.	ANALYSIS
He categorically stated that nobody told him that the injured was assaulted by any one, much less, the accused No.1.	ANALYSIS
This witness also was treated as hostile and prosecution was permitted to cross- examine him.	ANALYSIS
However, the prosecution could not get any support from this witness.	ANALYSIS
His alleged statements before the Investigating Officer were confronted to the witness and marked at Exs.P-18 and P-19.	ANALYSIS
In this manner, PW-7 also has not supported the case of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
 28. PW-8 - Narayanaswamy who is the brother- in- law of the injured complainant has stated that his another brother-in-law, i.e. Lakshmana Reddy (PW-4) informed him about the incident over phone, as such, he went to the Government Hospital at Chintamani and thereafter on the advise of the Doctor, the injured was shifted to Bengaluru, however, in order to make financial arrangement for medical expenses, he came back to his village.	ANALYSIS
The witness has specifically stated that he did not enquire with the injured about the incident since he was not in a condition to speak.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, he stated that the injured and his wife were happy and he does not know about the alleged panchayat said to have been held in the village of the complainant wherein the accused No.1 was said to have been advised.	ANALYSIS
Even this witness also was treated as hostile and prosecution was permitted to cross-examine him.	ANALYSIS
However, it could not get any support from the witness.	ANALYSIS
The confronted portions of his alleged statement before the Investigating Officer were marked at Exs.P-20 and P-21.	ANALYSIS
 29. PW-9	ANALYSIS
 Bachi Reddy and PW-10  Anjaneya Reddy were examined by the prosecution, projecting them as the panch witnesses for mahazar for the alleged scene of offence cum seizure mahazar at Ex.P-6.	ANALYSIS
Both these witnesses have clearly stated that the Police have obtained their signatures upon a pre- prepared document and without knowing as to what that document was, they have singed to the said document since the Police had asked them to sign it.	ANALYSIS
In this way, the prosecution could not get any support from the mahazar witnesses also.	ANALYSIS
As such, the evidence of the Investigating Officer (PW-11) that on 01-05-2008, he drew a scene of offence panchanama as per Ex.P-6 and from the spot of the offence, he also seized the material objects which are marked at MO-1 to MO-4 have remained un-corroborated by the evidence of these two witnesses.	ANALYSIS
Hence, the alleged scene of offence as well the alleged seizure of the Material Objects at MO-1 to MO-4 also stands not proved by the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
 30. At this stage, one more discrepancy that can be noticed in the case of the prosecution is that, according to the Investigating Officer, the weapon seized from the spot under alleged panchanama at Ex.P-6 was a machete (chopper/machchu) which is marked at MO-1.	ANALYSIS
However, as already observed above, PW-1 the injured in his evidence has stated that he was inflicted injuries with a knife.	ANALYSIS
It is nobody's case that PW-1 has got confused a machete with that of a knife.	ANALYSIS
Though he is said to be a villager, still, the said villager like PW-1 can be taken as knowing the difference between a knife and a machete.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, with respect to alleged weapon used in the alleged commission of crime also, the prosecution could not able to place reliable evidence.	ANALYSIS
 31. In the light of the above, the evidence of PW-12  Secretary of Grama Panchayat, who has given the alleged revenue documents as per Ex.P-24 to show that the alleged place of offence stands in the name of PW-1, would take the case of the prosecution no further.	ANALYSIS
 Similarly, the evidence of PW-14 - Doctor who has stated that on 01-05-2008, in the afternoon at about 2 o'clock, he examined the injured Manjunatha, who was brought to him with the history of assault by the accused and noticed upon the injured, four injuries including a grievous injury in the form of complete amputation of the penis shaft at the base and exposure of both the testicles with incision of the scrotum measuring 4"x2", would not by itself go to prove that the said injuries inflicted are caused by the accused.	ANALYSIS
 32. In the above circumstance, the evidence of the Investigating Officer (PW-11) would also take the case of the prosecution no further.	ANALYSIS
His evidence that, he recorded the statements of the above said prosecution witnesses and also seized the incriminating materials including the weapon at MO-1 since have all been not at all established by corroborative evidence of any of other prosecution witnesses, the Investigating Officer's evidence alone would not make the case of the prosecution believable.	ANALYSIS
 33. The motive alleged behind the crime, by the prosecution, is that, the accused No.1 had developed illicit relationship with accused No.2, as such, both the accused with their common intention to eliminate the complainant, had, on the alleged date and time of incident, inflicted injuries upon him and their attempt to kill him could not be succeeded, as such, the charge sheet was filed only for the offences punishable under Sections 342 and 307 read with Section 34 of IPC.	ANALYSIS
However, since none of the prosecution witnesses except PW-1 has supported the case of the prosecution on the said aspect and evidence of PW-1 also is proved to be not trustworthy, the alleged motive behind the alleged commission of the crime also fades away.	ANALYSIS
 34. The defence of the accused is that in the village of the complainant, one Erappa Reddy had a coconut garden which was fenced with sharp edged iron rods and sharp edged zinc sheets.	ANALYSIS
The complainant while attempting to pluck the coconuts from the said tree, had fallen on the fence and sustained the injuries.	ANALYSIS
The suggestion made to the said effect to the Doctor who was examined as PW-14 was not fully admitted by him as possible.	ANALYSIS
Though he admitted that the other injuries which were simple in nature, more particularly, injury No.2 could have been possible to be caused in that manner, but not the grievous injury.	ANALYSIS
However, PW-2  Kumari Shalini, the daughter of the complainant herself has stated in her examination-in-chief that, her father had sustained injury by falling from a coconut tree and it is in that regard, her father was admitted to a Hospital.	ANALYSIS
 Further, PW-4 - Lakshmana Reddy, the younger brother of the complainant in his cross-examination from the accused' side has stated that, one Sri. Erappa Reddy in their village has got a coconut tree and that in order to avoid the problem from the monkeys, he had put fencing around the trees with iron railings and rods.	ANALYSIS
 PW-7 - Ashwatha Reddy has stated that the said PW-4 - Lakshmana Reddy, for the injuries sustained by his brother and before shifting him to a Hospital, had told him that his brother (PW-1) had fallen from a tree and had sustained injuries, as such, he must be shifted to a Hospital.	ANALYSIS
It is only then, he joined said Lakshmana Reddy and shifted the injured in an auto rickshaw to the Hospital.	ANALYSIS
Thus, the evidence of these people who are none else than the Doctor, the younger brother and the person who shifted the injured to the Hospital would also go to show that, there was no whisper made to them about the commission of any criminal act or offences against the injured much less, by the accused resulting in injuries upon the complainant.	ANALYSIS
Thus, the defence taken by the accused further weakens the case of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
 35. However the Trial Court did not appreciate the evidence of the prosecution witnesses in their proper perspective.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, merely because a trustworthy and reliable evidence of the sole injured witness can be believed and conviction can be pronounced, the Trial Court, in a hasty manner and without even assessing whether the evidence of PW-1/injured witness was trustworthy and reliable, proceeded to solely rely upon his evidence and pronounced the judgment of conviction holding the present appellant/accused No.1 as guilty of the offences punishable under Sections 342 and 326 read with Section 34 of IPC.	ANALYSIS
Since the above analysis now shows that the said appreciation of the evidence by the Trial Court is with error, the said judgment of conviction of the appellant/accused No.1 for the aforesaid alleged offences deserves to be set aside and the appellant/accused No.1 deserves to be acquitted of the alleged offences holding that the prosecution has failed to prove the alleged guilt against her beyond reasonable doubt.	RATIO
 Accordingly, I proceed to pass the following: O R D E R [i] The appeal filed by appellant/accused No.1 is allowed; [ii] The judgment of conviction and order on sentence dated 21-01-2014 passed by the learned Principal District and Sessions Judge, Chikkaballapura, in Sessions Case No.111/2008, is set aside confining to the appellant here in; [iii] The appellant  Mrs. Shivamma, W/o.	RPC
Mr. Manjunath, Aged about 37 years, Resident of Chimanahalli village, Chintamani Taluk  563 125, is acquitted of the offences punishable under Sections 342 and 326 read with Section 34 of IPC; [iv] In case the appellant/accused No.1 is in judicial custody, serving the sentence, the jail authorities are hereby directed to set her at liberty forthwith, unless she is required to be continued in the judicial custody in any other criminal case/s; [v] The fine amount deposited, if any, by the appellant/accused No.1 shall be released to her after the period of appeal and if no appeal is preferred; [vi] In view of disposal of the main appeal, I.A.No.1/2014 does not survive for consideration.	RPC
 Registry to transmit a copy of this judgment along with Trial Court records to the Trial Court immediately.	RPC
 Registry to transmit today's order to the jail authorities forthwith.	RPC
 The Court acknowledges the services rendered by Sri.P.D. Subrahmanya, learned panel advocate from the High Court Legal Services Committee.	RPC
While acknowledging the assistance rendered by him in this case, the Court recommends to consider the remuneration payable to him to an amount not less than a sum of `5,000/-.	RPC
 Sd/- JUDGE BMV*	NONE
