PETITIONER:THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESHVs.RESPONDENT:NAV SWADESHI OIL MILLSDATE OF JUDGMENT03/11/1987	PREAMBLE
BENCH:VENKATARAMIAH, E.S. (J)BENCH:VENKATARAMIAH, E.S. (J)RANGNATHAN, S.CITATION:                1988 SCR (1) 736 1988 AIR 97             JT 1987 (4) 234 1987 SCC Supl. 388 1987 SCALE (2)920ACT:         Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957: ss. 13 &14(1) & 14(3)/Central Sales Tax Act, 1956: s. 9(2)-Applicability of-Returns not filed within the prescribedperiod-Assessments made after expiry of four years fromassessment year-Held, cases fall under s. 14(3) andassessment can be made within six years from expiry of	PREAMBLE
theassessment year	PREAMBLE
.HEADNOTE:%         Sub-section (2) of s. 9 of the Central Sales Tax Act,1956 makes the assessment procedure prescribed under thegeneral sales tax law of the appropriate State applicable tothe assessment to be made under the Central Act.	PREAMBLE
Section 13of the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957 requiresthe dealer to submit returns in such manner, within suchperiod and to such authority as may be prescribed. Sub-	PREAMBLE
section (1) of s. 14 permits the assessing authority toassess the amount of tax due on the returns submitted unders. 13 only within a period of four years from the expiry ofthe year to which the assessment relates.	PREAMBLE
Sub-section (3)permits the assessing authority to make best judgmentassessment where a dealer (i) fails to submit return beforethe date prescribed; (ii) produces the accounts registersand other documents after inspection and (iii) submits areturn subsequent to the date of inspection, within a periodof six years from the expiry of the year	PREAMBLE
to which theassessment relates.	PREAMBLE
         In the main appeal before this Court the assessee-respondent filed its return relating to the quarter ending31st March, 1969 on 7th August, 1969 under the Central SalesTax Act.	PREAMBLE
The last date prescribed by law was 24th May, 1969.	PREAMBLE
The Commercial Tax officer passed the assessment order on3rd August, 1973, beyond four years from 31st March, 1969,the last day of the assessment year 1968-69.	PREAMBLE
The assessee'sappeals against that order were dismissed by the AssistantCommissioner and the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal.	PREAMBLE
The HighCourt in revision, however, held that the assessment madeafter four years from the last day of the assessment yearwas not a valid assessment.	PREAMBLE
         In the connected appeal the respondent who was theassessee filed the annual return in respect of theassessment year 1968-69 under the A provisions of theCentral Act on 19th August, 1969 after the expiry of theprescribed date.	PREAMBLE
The order of assessment was passed on 2ndAugust, 1973 beyond four years from the last day of theassessment year 196869.	PREAMBLE
An appeal against that order wasdismissed by the Assistant Commissioner.	PREAMBLE
The Sales TaxAppellate Tribunal, however, allowed the appeal holding thatthe assessment had been passed beyond four years from thelast day of the assessment year.	PREAMBLE
The revision petitionpreferred by the State was dismissed in limine by the HighCourt.	PREAMBLE
         In the appeals by special leave filed by the State, itwas contended for the respondent that since the returns inthe cases had been accepted, even though they had filed beenbeyond the prescribed date, the assessments made thereoncould not be considered as best judgment assessments and,therefore, sub-section (3) of s. 14 of the Act under whichit is permissible to make best judgment assessments would beinapplicable.         Allowing the appeals.	PREAMBLE
D^         	PREAMBLE
HELD: 1.1 on a true construction of sub-s. (1) and sub-s. (3) of s. 14 of the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act,1957 it is apparent that where a return is not filed by adealer before the date prescribed in that behalf under theAct the assessing authority has jurisdiction to complete theassessment within a period of six years from the expiry ofthe year to which the assessment relates.	PREAMBLE
[744C]         1.2	PREAMBLE
The two types of cases which fall under sub-s. (1)and sub-s. (3) of s. 14 of the Act respectively are mutuallyexclusive.	PREAMBLE
The return on the basis of which an assessment isto be made under s. 14(1) is a return filed within theprescribed period and in such a case the assessment has tobe completed within a period of four years from the expiryof the period to which the assessment relates.	PREAMBLE
The Actconfers a distinct advantage on such a dealer who is promptin filing his return inasmuch as he acquires immunityagainst assessment on the expiry of the said period of fouryears.	PREAMBLE
All cases where the return is submitted beyond theprescribed date fall under sub-s. (3) of s. 14 of the Act.	PREAMBLE
Assessment in such cases may be completed within six yearsfrom the expiry of the year to which the assessment relates.	PREAMBLE
When once it is established in a case that a return has notbeen filed within the prescribed period such case fallsoutside s. 14(1) of the Act and therefore the period of fouryears prescribed therein becomes automatically inapplicable.It clearly falls under cl. (i) of sub-s. (3) of s. 14 of theAct and assessment can be H         made in such a case within the expiry of the period ofsix years.	PREAMBLE
In the instant cases the returns were not filedwithin the prescribed dates.	PREAMBLE
The assessments have,therefore, been rightly made within six years from the	PREAMBLE
expiry	PREAMBLE
of the year to which the assessments relate	PREAMBLE
. [742G-H;743A-B; 744C]         2. Whether the assessment made is the best judgment ornot has no bearing at all on the period within which anassessment can be made under the Act.	PREAMBLE
It depends upon theother conditions mentioned in sub-s. (1) and (3) of s. 14.	PREAMBLE
Best judgment assessment can be made even in a case fallingunder sub-s. (1), as is evident from the latter part of thatsub-section which reads: "but if the return appears to himto be incorrect or incomplete he shall after giving thedealer a reasonable opportunity of proving the correctnessand completeness of the return submitted by him and makingsuch inquiry as he deems necessary, to assess to the best ofhis judgment, the amount of tax due from the dealer." Yetsuch best judgment assessment has to be completed within aperiod of four years from the expiry of the year to whichthe assessment relates.	PREAMBLE
Therefore, in the instant casemerely because the assessments are not best judgmentassessments, it cannot be said that sub-s. (3) of s. 14 isinapplicable.	PREAMBLE
Neither the High Court nor the Tribunal gaveadequate attention to the words 'before the date prescribedin that behalf' in cl. (i) of sub-s. (3) of s. 14.	PREAMBLE
They laidemphasis only on the words 'fails to submit return' in thesaid sub-clause to arrive at a wrong conclusion.	PREAMBLE
[743C, H;744A-B]         State of Andhra Pradesh v. Pyarelal Malhotra, (13S.T.C. 946), and State of Madras v. S.G. Jayaraj Nadar &Sons, 28 S.T.C. 700, distinguished.	PREAMBLE
JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE
         CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION:	NONE
Civil Appeal No. 4448 of 1985.	NONE
From the Judgment and order dated 26. 10. 1982 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Tax Revision Case No. 23 of 1978.	NONE
 WITH Civil Appeal No. 694 of 1986.	NONE
From the Judgment and order dated 31.7.1985 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Tax Revision Case No. 205 of 1985.	NONE
         T.V.S.N. Chari for the Appellant.	NONE
        R. Ramachandran for the Respondents.	NONE
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH, J.	NONE
The question of law which arises in these two appeals by special leave being a common, they are disposed of by this common judgment.	NONE
The said question relates to the time within which an assessment can be made under the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') where the return is not filed by the dealer within the time prescribed in that behalf.	ISSUE
The assessee in Civil Appeal No. 4448 of 1985 is M/s.Nav Swadeshi oil Mills, Jadcharla, Mahboobnagar district.	FAC
For assessment year 1968-69 the assessee filed its return relating to the quarter ending 31.3. ,969 on 7.8.1969 before the Commercial Tax Officer of Mahboobnagar under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 even though the last date for submission of return prescribed by law was 24.5. 1969.	FAC
The return filed by the assessee showing a taxable turnover of Rs.18,25,410.72 was accepted and it was called upon to pay sales tax of Rs.45,424.48 under the Act.	FAC
The assessment order was passed on 3.8.1973 beyond four years from 31.3.1969 which was the last day of the assessment year 1968-69.	FAC
Aggrieved by the assessment order which had been passed beyond the period of four years from the last day of the assessment year the assessee filed an appeal before the Assistant Commissioner (CT) Appeals, Warangal in Appeal No.5 75-76 and that appeal was dismissed on 14.9.1976.	FAC
Against the order of the Assistant Commissioner (CT) Appeals.	FAC
Warangal the assessee filed an appeal before the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal, Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad in Tribunal Appeal No. 183 of 1977.	FAC
That appeal also was dismissed.	FAC
The assessee thereafter filed a revision petition in Tax Revision Case No. 23 of 1978 before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh.	FAC
The High Court by its order dated October 26, 1982 set aside the order of the Tribunal and also the assessment on the ground that the assessment which had been passed after four years from the last day of the assessment year was not a valid assessment.	RLC
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court the State of Andhra Pradesh has filed this appeal by special leave.	FAC
The assessee in Civil Appeal No. 694 of 1986 is M s.Nav Swadeshi oil Mills and Refinery at Jadcharla.	FAC
In respect of the assessment year 1968-69 the assessee filed an annual return under the provisions of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 on 19.8. 1969 after the expiryOf the prescribed period.	FAC
The order of assessment was passed on 2.8.1973 beyond four years from the last day of the assessment year 1968-69.	FAC
Aggrieved by the assessment order which had been passed by the assessing authority the assessee filed an appeal before the Assistant Commissioner (CT) Appeals, Warangal on the ground that the asssessment order passed beyond four years from the last day of the assessment year was barred by time.	FAC
That appeal was dismissed.	FAC
Against the order passed in that appeal the assessee filed an appeal before the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal, Andhra Pradesh in Tribunal Appeal No. 206 of 1977.	FAC
The Tribunal allowed the appeal and set aside the assessment holding that the assessment had been passed beyond time.	FAC
Aggrieved by the decision of the Tribunal the State of Andhra Pradesh filed a Revision Petition in Tax Revision Case No. 205 of 1985 on the file of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh.	FAC
That Revision Petition was dismissed in limine by the High Court.	FAC
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court the State of Andhra Pradesh has filed this appeal by special leave.	FAC
 The only question which arises for consideration in these appeals is whether the orders of assessment in the above two cases which had admittedly been passed beyond four years from the last day of the assessment year but within the period of six years from that date had been validly passed.	ISSUE
By virtue of section 9 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 the procedure prescribed for making an assessment under the Act is applicable to the assessments to be made under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.	ANALYSIS
Section 13 of the Act prescribes that every dealer who is liable to get himself registered under section 12 or section 12-A as the case may be under the Act shall submit such return or returns relating to his turnover in such manner within such period and to such authority as may be prescribed.	STA
The material part of section 14 which is relevant for purposes of these cases reads thus: "14. Assessment of tax: ( I) If the assessing authority is satisfied that any return submitted under section 13 is correct and complete, he shall assess the amount of tax payable by the dealer on the basis thereof, but if the return appears to him to be incorrect or incomplete he shall, after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of proving the correctness and completeness of the return submitted by him and making such inquiry as he deems necessary, assess to the best of his judgment, the amount of tax due from the dealer.                  	STA
An assessment under this section shall be made only within a period of four years from the expiry of the year to which the assessment relates.	STA
                                         ...................	STA
 (3) Where any dealer liable to tax under this Act- (i) fails to submit return before the date prescribed in that behalf, or (ii) produces the accounts, registered and other documents after inspection, or (iii) submits a return subsequent to the date of inspection, the assessing authority may, at any time within a period of six years from the expiry of the year to which assessment relates, after issuing a notice to the dealer and after such enquiry as he considers necessary, assess to the best of his judgment, the amount of tax due from the dealer on his turnover for that year, and may direct the dealer to pay in addition to the tax so assessed penalty as specified in subsection (8)."         	STA
It is necessary to analyse sub-section (1) and sub- section (3) of section 14 of the Act for purposes of determining the issue involved in these cases.	ANALYSIS
Sub-section ( ]) of section 14 of the Act provides that if the assessing authority is satisfied that any return submitted under section 13 is correct and complete, he shall assess the amount of tax payable by the dealer on the basis thereof but if the return appears to the assessing authority to be incorrect or incomplete he shall after giving the dealer reasonable opportunity of proving the correctness and completeness of the return submitted and making such inquiry as he deems necessary, assess to the best of his judgment, the amount of tax due from the dealer.	STA
In both these cases the return contemplated is one which has been filed in accordance with section 13 of the Act within the time prescribed for that purpose.	ANALYSIS
Such an assessment under sub- section ( 1) of section 14 of the Act can be made within a period of four years from the expiry of the period to which the assessment relates.	ANALYSIS
Sub-section (3) of section 14 of the Act authorises the assessing authority to make an assessment to the best of his judgment in three cases: (i) where a dealer under the Act fails to submit return before the date prescribed in that behalf, (ii) where a dealer produces the accounts. registers and other documents after inspection and (iii) where a dealer submits a return subsequent to the date of inspection.	STA
In these three cases theassessing authority is empowered to make an assessment to the best of '4 his judgment at any time within a period of six years from the expiry of the year to which the assessment relates after issuing a notice to the dealer and after such inquiry which he considers necessary to make the assessment.	ANALYSIS
         The crucial question which arises for consideration in these cases is whether in a case where the assessee submits a true and complete return after the prescribed date the assessment should be completed within a period of four years prescribed by sub-section ( 1) of section 14 of the Act or within a period of six years permitted under sub-section (3) of section 14 of the Act.	ANALYSIS
Sub-section (1) of section 14 of the Act relates to an assessment which may be made on the basis of a return submitted under section 13 of the Act.	ANALYSIS
Section 13 of the Act as stated above provides that every dealer shall submit such return or returns relating to his turnover in such manner within such period and to such authority as may be prescribed.	STA
The return on the basis of which an assessment is to be made under section 14(1) of the Act is, therefore, a return filed within the prescribed period and in such a case the assessment has to be completed within a period of four years from the expiry of the year to which the assessment relates.	ANALYSIS
The return referred to in sub- section ( 1) of section 14 of the Act cannot be a return filed beyond the prescribed date is emphasised by clause (i) of sub-section (3) of section 14 of the Act which refers to a case where a dealer liable to pay tax fails to submit return before the date prescribed in that behalf.	ANALYSIS
All cases where the return is submitted beyond the prescribed date fall under sub-section (3) of section 14 of the Act.	ANALYSIS
 The scheme of the Act regarding the period within which assessments can be made is very simple.	ANALYSIS
Assessments in cases falling under sub-section (1) of section 14 of the Act have to be completed within four years from the expiry of the year to which the assessment relates and assessments in cases falling under sub-section (3) of section 14 of the Act may be completed within six years from the expiry of the year to which the assessment relates.	ANALYSIS
The two types of cases which fall under sub-section (l) and sub-section (3) of section 14 of the Act respectively are mutually exclusive.	ANALYSIS
When once it is established in case that a return has not been filed within the prescribed period such case falls outside section 14 ( l) of the Act and therefore the period of four years prescribed therein becomes automatically inapplicable.	ANALYSIS
It clearly falls under clause (i) of sub- section (3) of section 14 of the Act and assessment can be made in such a case within the expiry of the period of six years.	ANALYSIS
While a dealer who files a return within the prescribedperiod acquires immunity against assessment on the expiry of four years from the last day of the assessment year, a dealer who fails to file a return within the prescribed period has to wait for six years to be over to acquire such immunity.	ANALYSIS
Thus the Act confers a distinct advantage on a dealer who is prompt in filing his return.	ANALYSIS
 We are not impressed by the argument that since the returns in the cases before us had been accepted even though they had been filed beyond the prescribed date the assessments made thereon cannot be considered as best judgment assessment and therefore sub-section (3) of section 14 of the Act under which it is permissible to make best judgment assessments would be inapplicable.	ANALYSIS
The period within which assessments can be made under the Act does not depend upon the answer to the question whether the assessment in question is a best judgment assessment or it is an assessment made treating the return as correct and complete but it depends upon the other conditions mentioned in sub-section ( 1) and in sub-section (3) of section 14 of the Act.	ANALYSIS
We may here point out that even in a case falling under subsection (1) of section 14 of the Act it is possible for the assessing authority to make a best judgment assessment as can be seen from the latter part of the said sub-section which reads: "but if the return appears to him to be incorrect or incomplete he shall after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of proving the correctness and completeness of the return submitted by him and making such inquiry as he deems necessary, assess to the best of his judgment, the amount of tax due from the dealer."	STA
Yet such best judgment assessment has to be completed within a period of four years from the expiry of the year to which the assessment relates.	ANALYSIS
Hence it cannot be held that merely because the assessments in question are not best judgment assessments sub-section (3) of section 14 of the Act is inapplicable for best judgment assessments can be made both under sub-section (1) and subsection (3) of section 14 of the Act.	ANALYSIS
That the assessment is a best judgment assessment is not, therefore, decisive of the question involved in these appeals.	ANALYSIS
 The decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the State of Andhra Pradesh v. Pyarelal Malhotra 13 S.T.C. 946 and the decision of this Court in the State of Madras v. S.G. Jayaraj Nadar & Sons 28 S.T.C. 700 which dealt with the question as to when a best judgment assessment could be made are not relevant for purposes of deciding the question which has arisen before us.	PRE_NOT_RELIED
As we have already pointed out the question whether the assessment made is the best judgment assessment or not has no bearing at all on the period within which an assess- ment can be made under the Act.	ANALYSIS
Neither in the judgment of the High Court against which Civil Appeal No. 4448 of 1985 is filed nor in the judgment of the Tribunal out of which Civil Appeal No. 694 of 1986 arises adequate attention is given to the words 'before the date prescribed in that behalf in clause (i) of sub-section (3) of section 14 of the Act.	ANALYSIS
The High Court and the Tribunal laid emphasis only on the words "fails to submit return" in the said sub-clause and it is on this account they arrived at a wrong conclusion.	ANALYSIS
 On a true construction of sub-section (I) and sub- section (3) of section 14 of the Act we are of opinion that where a return is not filed by a dealer before the date prescribed in that behalf under the Act, the assessing authority has got jurisdiction to complete the assessment within a period of six years from the expiry of the year to which the assessment relates.	RATIO
Admittedly, in these cases the returns were not filed within the prescribed date and the assessments have been made within six years from the expiry of the year to which the assessments relate.	RATIO
The orders of the High Court against which these appeals have been filed are therefore liable to be set aside.	RPC
In Civil Appeal No. 4448 or 1985 the judgment of the High Court is set aside and the judgment of the Tribunal is restored.	RPC
In Civil Appeal No. 694 of 1986 the order of the High Court and the judgment of the tribunal are set aside and judgment of the Assistant Commissioner (CT) Appeals, Warangal is restored.	RPC
The respondent shall pay the costs of the Appellant in both the appeals.	RPC
 P.S.S.               Appeals allowed.	RPC
