IN THE COURT OF CIVIL JUDGE-cum-JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE FIRSTCLASS, ROURKELA,DISTRICT:SUNDARGARH	PREAMBLE
Present:          Miss Chinmayee Panda, B.A.LL.B.(Hons.)          Civil Judge-cum-JMFC,          Rourkela.	PREAMBLE
Date of Argument: -23.05.2017          Date of Judgment: -01.06.2017	PREAMBLE
2(a)ccCase No.117/00          Trial No. 480/14          State                             Vrs.1. Soni Tanty, aged about 44 years, W/o-Padu Tanty,At-Brahamanitrang, Singh Basti,PS-Brahamanitrang Singh Basti,Dist-Sundargarh,                                                  ...AccusedCounsel for the State....... Ld. A.P.P, RourkelaCounsel for the defence.....Sri.Rameswar Prasad & Associates        Status of the accused :On bail          Offence U/S. 47 (f) B & O Excise Act                      J U D G M E N T 1.	PREAMBLE
The accused stands charged for allegedly committing offence u/s 47(f) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act (hereinafter referred to as B & O Excise Act) .	FAC
2. The case of the prosecution as unfolded from the PR is that on 26.10.1999 at about 05.30 PM while the then SI of Excise, Panposh charge, Sri.Md.Zamir Hussain was performing patrolling duty along with his staff at Singh basti, Brahamanitrang area, on receipt of reliable information he conducted raid in the house of the accused.	FAC
After observing all legal formalities of search, he searched the house of the accused and recovered one earthen pot containing some liquid substance, which on measurement was found to be 15 Kg along with the one steel head and earthen steel having liquor smell.	FAC
He tested the contents of the earthen pot by blue litmus paper and the blue litmus paper turned into red.	FAC
From such test and from his departmental experience and distillery training, he confirmed the same to be nothing but FM Wash.	FAC
Hence, he seized the same in presence of witnesses and prepared seizure list.	FAC
After drawing the sample, he destroyed the rest of the seized articles due to inconvenience in transport.	FAC
On the basis of the P.R. submitted by the I.O. ,cognizance was taken and subsequently trial commenced against the accused for allegedly committing offence under section 47(f) of Bihar and Orissa Excise Act.	FAC
Hence, this case.	FAC
 3. The plea of defence is one of complete denial .	FAC
4. Points for determination : (i)        	ISSUE
Whether on 26.10.1999 at about 05.30 A.M , at Sing basti, Brahamanitrang, area the Excise officials seized 15 Kgs of FM Wash from exclusive and conscious possession of the accused ? (ii) Whether the seized articles was nothing but fermented mahua wash ?	ISSUE
5. In order to substantiate its case prosecution has examined as many as two witnesses out of whom P.W.2, is the SI of Excise, P.W.1, is the Excise staff who had accompanied P.W.2 during the alleged patrolling duty.	FAC
On the other hand the defence has preferred not to examine any witness on behalf of the accused .	FAC
6. In order to establish seizure, P.W.2 has deposed that on 26.10.1999 at about 05.30 PM while he had been for patrolling duty with his staff at Singh basti,Brahamanitrang area, on receipt of reliable information he conducted raid in the house of the accused and after observing all legal formalities of search, he searched the house of the accused and recovered one earthen steel head with liquor smell and one earthen pot containing some liquid substance.	FAC
From the evidence of P.W.2, it is found that on measurement it was found to be 15 Kg .	FAC
He has further stated that he tested the contents of the earthen pot by blue litmus paper and it turned into red.	FAC
As per his evidence from such test and from his departmental experience and distillery training, P.W.2 confirmed the same to be nothing but FM Wash.	FAC
Hence, he seized the same in presence of witnesses and prepared seizure list vide Ext.1.	FAC
The SI of Excise also drew sample for the purpose of chemical examination and destroyed the rest of the seized articles at the spot in presence of witnesses.	FAC
P.W.1 has also deposed in the same light as that of P.W.2.	FAC
 During the course of cross-examination of P.W.2 had admitted that the seized sample was not produced in the court.	FAC
It appears from the evidence adduced that though the spot of seizure was the house of the accused but no independent witness has been examined by the prosecution to prove the fact of seizure.	ANALYSIS
In the absence of independent corroboration to the evidence of the Excise personnel the prosecution case is suspicious.	ANALYSIS
Prosecution has also not adduced any evidence that the accused had dominion or control over the seized article.	ANALYSIS
In view of the above discussion, the fact that the seized article was recovered from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused becomes doubtful.	ANALYSIS
Hence, it is concluded that prosecution has failed to prove the factum of seizure from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused beyond all the reasonable doubts.	ANALYSIS
7. So far as the nature of liquor is concerned though P.W.2 has deposed that he tested the contents of the earthen pot with the help of blue litmus paper and such paper turned into red.	ANALYSIS
But during course of cross-examination he had admitted that he has not affixed the said litmus paper in the case record.	ANALYSIS
Similarly though in his examination in chief, P.W.2 has deposed that he drew sample from the seized article for the purpose of chemical examination but, during course of his cross-examination he has stated that the sample was not sent for chemical examination.	ANALYSIS
He has also admitted that he has not filed his experience certificate in the court.	ANALYSIS
Law is well settled that chemical test is the surest test of liquor.	ANALYSIS
Where chemical test has not been done and other tests like blue litmus paper and hydrometer test etc. has been done,the burden lies on the prosecution to establish that the officer is specially trained and has long departmental experience so that his evidence can be accepted as expert opinion and can substitute chemical test.	ANALYSIS
In absence of any chemical test so also any document to prove that the S.I can be regarded as expert, it is not safe to rely on the testimony of P.W2.	ANALYSIS
In view of the above discussion, the allegation that the seized article is nothing but fermented mahua wash comes under cloud.	ANALYSIS
Hence, it can be safely concluded that prosecution has failed to prove that the seized article is fermented mahua wash beyond all reasonable doubts.	ANALYSIS
08. In the present case after analyzing the evidence on record, I find it fair enough to acquit the accused on the ground that prosecution has miserably failed to prove the occurrence itself.	RATIO
In the result I hold the accused not guilty of offence u/s 47(f) of Bihar and Orissa Excise Act and he is acquitted therefrom as per the provision of section 248(1) of Cr.P.C.	RPC
The accused be set at liberty forthwith and be discharged from his bail bond so far as this case is concerned .	RPC
9. The seized articles be destroyed after four months of expiry of the appeal period in case of no appeal and in case of any appeal as per the order of the Appellate Court.	RPC
Enter this case as mistake of fact for statistical purpose .	RPC
CivilJudge-cum-J.M.F.C., Rourkela.	NONE
 Transcript is typed out to my dictation, corrected by me and judgment is pronounced in the open court in presence of the accused under my signature and seal on this the 01st day of June, 2017.	NONE
 Civil Judge-cum-J.M.F.C., Rourkela.	NONE
LIST OF WITNESSES EXAMINED FOR THE PROSECUTION: P.W. 1   Baikuntha Patel P.W. 2   Md.Zamir Hussain LIST OF WITNESSES EXAMINED FOR THE DEFENCE:	NONE
Nil LIST OF EXHIBITS MARKED ON BEHALF OF THE PROSECUTION: Ext. 1   Seizure list Ext.1/1  Signature of P.W.1 P.W.1/2  Signature of P.W.2 LIST OF EXHIBITS MARKED ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENCE : Nil.	NONE
LIST OF M.O. MARKED ON BEHALF OF THE PROSECUTION.	NONE
 N i l. LIST OF M.O. MARKED ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENCE.	NONE
 N i l.  6 Civil Judge-cum-J.M.F.C., Rourkela.	NONE
