THE COURT OF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE FIRST CLASS,                           SUNDARGARH.	PREAMBLE
Present:  Sri P.K. Sethi, LL.M.,          J.M.F.C., Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE
Dated this the 16th day of October, 2015          2(a)CC No. 174 of 2014            	PREAMBLE
Trial No. 339 of 2015.	PREAMBLE
          STATE	PREAMBLE
............	PREAMBLE
Prosecution                 	PREAMBLE
-VERSUS -       	PREAMBLE
Bhukhal Khadia, aged about 65 years,	PREAMBLE
       S/O- Late Litu Khadia       At- Bandhabahal       P.S.- Hemgir       District- Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE
............. AccusedOffence U/s. 47 (a) of the B & O Excise Act      Counsel for the prosecution :	PREAMBLE
Debasish Mishra,                                      A.P.P.,Sundargarh	PREAMBLE
Counsel for the defence : Shri N Immam, Advocate.	PREAMBLE
Date of conclusion of argument: 15.10.2015.	PREAMBLE
Date of pronouncement of judgment: 16.10.2015.       J U D G M E N T	PREAMBLE
The accused person namely Bhukhal Khadia, stands charged for the commission of offence U/s. 47 (a) of the Bihar & Orissa Excise Act.	FAC
 The accused is on bail and is present in the Court today.	FAC
2.     	FAC
Briefly stated, the case of the prosecution is that on 13.07.2014 at about 7.30 am near Bandhabahal area while Indrajit Sahu, S.I. Of Excise, Sadar Mobile was performing patrolling duty along with other official staffs, they found the accused Bhukhal Khadia going on the road by holding a plastic jerry cane in his hand.	FAC
On suspicion, S.I of Excise detained him and search was effected.	FAC
On search, he recovered some contraband liquid substance suspected to be liquor.	FAC
After that S.I. of Excise conducted smell, blue litmus paper and hydrometer tests.	FAC
On hydrometer test the temprature was found to be 720 F, indication to be 86.0 and strength to be 62.10 UP and out of his distillery training and experience ascertained that the liquid was nothing but I.D liquor.	FAC
On being asked, the accused could not produce any licence or authority with respect to same.	FAC
After measurement through litre measure, the whole quantity was found to be 5 litres.	FAC
Seizure was effected and then seizure list was prepared.	FAC
After that he read over the contents to the accused and the witnesses and obtained their signatures on the seizure list.	FAC
The S.I. of Excise, arrested the accused and forwarded him to the court.	FAC
After completion of inquiry, he submitted P.R. against the accused u/s. 47 (a) of the B & O Excise Act to face his trial .	FAC
Hence, this case.	FAC
3. The Plea of the defence is of outright denial and false implication.	FAC
4. The following points arose for determination in the present case: I.	ISSUE
Whether on 13.07.2014 at about 7.30 AM at Bandhabahal village the accused namely Bhukhal Khadia was detected by the Excise officials to be in exclusive and conscious possession of one plastic jerrycane containing 5 litres of I.D liquor without any license or authority?	ISSUE
 II. Whether the seized article was nothing but I.D liquor?	ISSUE
5. In order to substantiate its case, prosecution has examined 2 witnesses in all out of whom P.W.1 is the S.I of Excise and P.W.2 is the Excise constable.	ANALYSIS
Rest one witness has been declined by the learned A.P.P. Ext.s 1 to 2/1 are marked on behalf of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, defence has neither examined any witnesses nor marked any documents as exhibits on its behalf.	ANALYSIS
6. The learned counsel for the state has contended that in this case both the official witnesses have supported the prosecution case in full and hence the prosecution case is well established.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, the learned defence counsel has challenged the credibility and quality of the case on the following grounds: I. The seized articles have not been produced. II.	ARG_RESPONDENT
None could say regarding the special identification mark on the seized articles.	ARG_RESPONDENT
 Submitting the above, the learned counsel for the defence has prayed for an acquittal.	ARG_RESPONDENT
 7.  On appreciation of evidence on record P.W.1, the S.I of Excise has deposed that on 13.07.2014 at about 7.30 am he was performing patrolling duty at Bandhabahal village along with his official staffs.	ANALYSIS
During patrolling duty, they found the accused going on the road by holding a white plastic jerry cane in his hand.	ANALYSIS
On suspicion, he detained the accused and on search, he recovered I.D. liquor from the plastic jerry cane.	ANALYSIS
The total amount of I.D. liquor was found to be 5 litres through litre measurement.	ANALYSIS
He tested the liquid with blue litmus paper as a result of which it turned into red.	ANALYSIS
The temperature, indication and strength of the liquid substance were found to be 720 F, 86.0 and 62.10 UP respectively on hydrometer test.	ANALYSIS
He proved the tested blue litmus paper as Ext.1/2.	ANALYSIS
He proved the hydrometer chart as Ext.2 and his signature thereon as Ext.2/1.	ANALYSIS
On smell test, departmental experience and distillery training it was ascertained that the liquid substance is nothing but I.D liquor.	ANALYSIS
On demand, the accused failed to produce any authority in respect of the same.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter, seizure was effected and seizure list was prepared.	ANALYSIS
He proved the seizure list as Ext.1 and his signature thereon as Ext.1/1.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2, Excise constable who accompanied the SI of Excise during patrolling duty has deposed that during patrolling duty they detected the accused person who was going on the road by holding a plastic jerry cane in his hand.	ANALYSIS
On suspicion, Sahu sir detained him and on search he recovered 5 litres of I.D liquor containing in a plastic jerry cane.	ANALYSIS
After conducting blue litmus paper test, hydrometer test and on smell test it was ascertained by the S.I of Excise that the said liquid substance was nothing but I.D liquor.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter, the liquor along with plastic jerry cane was seized and seizure list was prepared in the presence of witnesses.	ANALYSIS
His signature on the seizure list has been admitted into evidence as Ext.1/3.	ANALYSIS
From the testimonies of P.W.1 and P.W.2, it is clear that the S.I. of Excise has conducted hydrometer test and blue litmus paper test for ascertaining the seized liquid to be I.D liquor.	ANALYSIS
Nothing substantial could be elicited from the P.W.s 1 and 2 during cross examination to discredit their testimonies.	ANALYSIS
In view of the aforesaid analysis I am of the opinion that the liquid is nothing but I.D liquor.	ANALYSIS
8. The next question to be determined is whether the seizure was made from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
To this the learned counsel for the accused submitted that there is no independent witness available in this case to prove the search and seizure.	ANALYSIS
The seized article was also not produced before the Court during the course of trial.	ANALYSIS
The witnesses examined in this case are interested witnesses for the prosecution as such they cannot be relied upon and accordingly, the accused be acquitted. 	ANALYSIS
Admittedly, the seized liquor has not been produced in the Court.	ANALYSIS
The witnesses examined are the interested witnesses whose evidence required corroboration by independent witness which is absent in this case.	ANALYSIS
In the absence of independent corroboration, the search and seizure of the contraband articles become doubtful.	ANALYSIS
Moreover, the documents relating to the ownership of the house of the accused have not been seized.	ANALYSIS
In view of the above discussion, the fact that the seized article was recovered from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused becomes doubtful.	RATIO
Hence, it is concluded that prosecution has failed to prove the factum of seizure from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused beyond all reasonable doubts.	RATIO
 9.  In the result, therefore, I hold the accused not guilty of committing the offence punishable U/s. 47(a) of the Bihar & Orissa Excise Act and acquit him as per Section 248(1) of the Cr.PC.	RPC
The accused be set at liberty forthwith and is discharged from his bail bond.	RPC
 The seized articles ,if any, be destroyed after four months of expiry of appeal period if no appeal is preferred and if preferred, be dealt with as per the direction of the Appellate Court.	RPC
 Enter this case as " mistake of fact".	RPC
         Pronounced the judgment in the Open Court today i.e on 16th day of October, 2015 under my hand and seal of the Court. J.M.F.C, Sundargarh Typed to my dictation & corrected by me. J.M.F.C,Sundargarh	NONE
List of witnesses examined for the prosecution: P.W.1    :Indrajit Sahu P.W.2    :Babulu Dash	NONE
List of witness examined for the defence: N o n e List of documents admitted in evidence for the prosecution: Ext. 1   :Seizure list Ext.1/1  :Signature of P.W.1 on Ext.1 Ext.1/2  :Tested Blue litmus paper Ext.2    :Hydrometer chart. Ext.2/1  :Signature of P.W.1 on Ext.2 Ext.1/3  :Signature of P.W.2 on Ext.1.	NONE
List of documents admitted in evidence for the defence: N I L List of material objects admitted in evidence for the prosecution: N I L List of material objects admitted in evidence for defence: N I L J.M.F.C., Sundargarh. 	NONE
