IN THE COURT OF THE SUB DIVISIONAL JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,                                       SUNDARGARH.                          DISTRICT:	PREAMBLE
SUNDARGARH.	PREAMBLE
PRESENT:	PREAMBLE
Mrs Musarrat Zahin, LL.B.,                          S.D.J.M.,Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE
    2(a) CC CASE No.62 of 2015	PREAMBLE
        Trial No.180 of 2015    Date of argument : 27.06.2017	PREAMBLE
Date of Judgment : 10.07.2017    State	PREAMBLE
of Odisha	PREAMBLE
. ......                        Prosecution.	PREAMBLE
                             -vrs.-    	PREAMBLE
Jaishree Kalo, aged about 50 years,    S	PREAMBLE
/o- Surendra Kalo, Resident    of Village- Nuadihi, Ps-Lephripada,    District.	PREAMBLE
Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE
........ Accused is in custody.    Offence U/s.47(a)(i) Bihar & Orissa Excise Act.    	PREAMBLE
Counsel for the State : Sri Debasish Shit, APP	PREAMBLE
Counsel for the Defence : Sri P K Choudhury & associates, Sundargarh.	PREAMBLE
    J U D G M E N T	PREAMBLE
 1.  Accused stands charged for the offence U/s. 47(a) (i) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act for illegal possession of I.D. Liquor.	FAC
2.  The story of the prosecution in brief is that on 19.03.2015 at about 9.30 AM, while the SI of Excise Sadar Mobile, Sundargarh was performing patrolling duty along with other official staffs at village Nuadihi (Sancharpada) area, Sundargarh.	FAC
During patrolling, they found the accused namely Jaishree Kalo was going on the road by holding a plastic jerry cane in her hand.	FAC
On suspicion, the patrolling team detained her and on search, recovered one plastic jerry cane containing ID liquor from the possession of the accused in presence of the witnesses.	FAC
Thereafter, he conducted blue litmus test, smell test, hydrometer test and from above tests and from his prolonged service experience, he ascertained that the seized article was I.D. liquor.	FAC
On being asked, the accused failed to produce any license or authority for such illegal possession, he seized 4 (four) litres of ID liquor containing in a plastic jerry cane from the possession of the accused.	FAC
Thereafter, he measured the liquor through litre measurement and prepared the seizure list in presence of witnesses.	FAC
After that he arrested the accused and produced before the court.	FAC
Then the SI of Excise Sadar Mobile has enquired into the matter and after completion of his inquiry submitted final PR against the accused U/s.47(a)(i) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act suggesting her trial.	FAC
 3.        The plea of the accused is one of complete denial and false implication only for statistical purpose.	FAC
4. The points for determination of this case are as follows: (i)    	ISSUE
Whether on 19.03.2015 at about 9.30 AM, on the road of village Nuadihi (Sancharpada), Sundargarh SI of Excise seized (4) four litres of ID liquor containing in a plastic jerry cane which you were carrying for the purpose of selling without any authority?	ISSUE
 (ii)   Whether on the same date, time and place the said (4) four litrs of ID liquor has been seized from your exclusive and conscious possession? (iii)  Whether the seized article is I.D. liquor or not ?	ISSUE
 5.        To prove its case, prosecution has examined only three witnesses.	FAC
Out of whom P.W.3 is the SI of Excise Sadar Mobile and P.W.2 is the accompanying Excise constable.	FAC
P.W.3 is the cited independent seizure witness to the alleged occurrence.	FAC
Prosecution proved certain documents marked as Ext. 1 to Ext.2/1.	FAC
On the other hand, no oral or documentary evidence adduced on behalf of accused in his defence.	FAC
 6.  On analysis of the evidence on record P.W.3 the SI of Excise Sadar Mobile, Sundargarh deposed that on 19.03.2015 at about 9.00 AM, while he was performing patrolling duty at village Nuadihi (Sancharpada) area found that the accused was coming on the road by holding a plastic jerry cane in her hand.	ANALYSIS
On suspicion, he detained the accused Jaishree Kalo and on search, he recovered (4) four litres of ID liquor containing in the plastic jerry cane from the possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
According to this witness, he had conducted blue litmus paper test which turned into red in colour, conducted hydrometer test and thereafter prepared the seizure list.	ANALYSIS
Another official witness P.W.2 (Excise constable) like wise supported the version of P.W.3 in respect of patrolling and seizure of the liquor from the possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
Specific version of both the witnesses is that seizure was conducted by the SI of Excise Sadar Mobile in presence of the witnesses.	ANALYSIS
Hence, it is necessary to testify the testimony of the official witnesses from independent source for the sake of corroboration.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1, the independent seizure witness did not support the version of P.W.2 and P.W.3 at all in respect of factum of seizure.	ANALYSIS
According to him nothing was seized in his presence by any Excise staff and on direction of the police, he put his signature in a paper.	ANALYSIS
Hence, there is discrepancy between the testimony of independent seizure witness and the official witnesses.	ANALYSIS
 7.  To prove an offence U/s.47(a)(i) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act, it is the bounden duty of prosecution to establish that the seizure was from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
But in this case the seizure witness did not support the factum of seizure at all.	ANALYSIS
Further the SI of Excise Sadar Mobile P.W.3 in cross-examination admitted that he did not know the accused prior to the occurrence and the spot of occurrence is a village road and busy one.	ANALYSIS
 Further he stated that he has not produced the seized articles before the court nor he sent the same for chemical examination.	ANALYSIS
Though the independent corroboration is not the rule but as the place of seizure is a public place, examination of independent witness is necessary to make the judgment free from any criticism.	ANALYSIS
 The plea of the defence is that a false case has been foisted against him only for statistical purpose.	ANALYSIS
There is no material on record to show the exact place of seizure, as no sketch map is prepared or proved by the prosecution in this case to establish that the seizure was from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
More so the SI of Excise neither produced the seized liquor before the court nor sent the same for chemical examination.	ANALYSIS
Further, independent seizure witness did not support the factum of seizure.	ANALYSIS
 8.  That apart the seized article has not been produced before the court.	ANALYSIS
 Thus it cannot be said with certainty that the liquor was seized from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
In Bhagia Sahoo vrs. State of Orissa reported in (2002) 93 CLT 684 where his Lordship has observed that when the liquor seized is not produced before the Court and no reason for such non production is provided and the independent witness is not supporting the seizure, the evidence provided by the prosecution is not sufficient for conviction.	PRE_RELIED
In the instant case, the seized liquor is not produced before this Court and no reason for such non production has been provided by the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
That apart in the present case informant himself I.O of the case.	ANALYSIS
The Hon'ble Apex Court upheld in Mukhitiar Ahmed Ansari Vrs NCT of Delhi 2005 31 OCR (SC) 257 that investigation by the same police official who had lodged the complaint is deprecating practice and in absence of any independent corroboration no conviction can be recorded in such a case.	PRE_RELIED
Hence, the entire fact of search and seizure sound skeptical.	ANALYSIS
In such premises, I hold that the prosecution failed to prove the factum of seizure from the possession of the accused for want of independent corroboration.	ANALYSIS
Hence, the prosecution failed to establish the seizure from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
9.  With regard to nature of seized article whether it is liquor or not.	ANALYSIS
P.W.3 stated that the seized article is I.D. liquor.	ANALYSIS
No document is filed or proved on behalf of prosecution to establish that P.W.3 is competent enough to opine on the subject of liquor, spirit or intoxicant being an expert U/s. 45 of Indian Evidence Act.	ANALYSIS
No distillery training certificate has been filed on his behalf.	ANALYSIS
It is the settled principle of law that chemical test is the surest test and in the instant case, the alleged liquor was never subjected to any chemical test and in the absence of any chemical test, the officer conducting test must produce an unequivocal evidence on the score that he has expertise knowledge to testify the liquor and then his opinion can be regarded as the opinion of an expert as enshrined U/s-45 of the Indian Evidence Act.	ANALYSIS
In Shimanchal Choudhury Vrs. State of Orissa reported in 2005 (ii) OLR 40 it has been held by the Hon'ble Court that Excise Officer bearing some experience due to long service can not be termed as an expert in terms of Section-45 of the Indian Evidence Act.	PRE_RELIED
The bare statement of P.W.3 that he conducted blue litmus paper test which turned into red in colour along with hydrometer test does not prove conclusively that the seized liquor was ID liquor.	ANALYSIS
Litmus test only determines acidity and hydrometer test only determines density of a substance.	ANALYSIS
Both these tests conclusively can not establish of a substance to be liquor because without positive proof regarding presence of alcohol contents a substance can not be held to be liquor.	ANALYSIS
Further this witness has admittedly stated in cross-examination that he had not sent the seized article or samples for chemical examination which is one of the surest test.	ANALYSIS
Hence, I hold that prosecution failed to establish that the seized article is I.D. Liquor.	ANALYSIS
 10.  In view of the whole discussions in foregoing paragraphs, since the prosecution failed to establish that the seizure of contraband article from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused, I hold that prosecution failed to establish the charge leveled against the accused for commission of offence U/s.47(a)(i) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act beyond all reasonable doubt.	RATIO
Hence, I acquit her therefrom under the provisions of Sec.248(1) Cr.P.C.	RPC
She be set at liberty and discharged from her bail bond.	RPC
Enter the case as mistake of fact.	RPC
 The seized articles if any be destroyed after four months expiry of appeal period, if no appeal is preferred and in case of appeal subject to the orders of the appellate court. S.D.J.M.,Sundargarh.                                                                        10.07.2017	RPC
The judgment is transcribed and typed to my dictation, corrected by me and pronounced in the open court on this the 10th day of July, 2017 and given under my hand and seal of the court. S.D.J.M. Sundargarh. List of P.Ws.	NONE
Examined: P.W. 1	NONE
Subash Chandra Das P.W. 2	NONE
Nirupama Naik P.W.3.           	NONE
Abhiram Behera List of D.Ws examined:	NONE
N i l. List of Exts.marked for the prosecution.	NONE
 Ext.1            	NONE
Signature of P.W.1 Ext.1/1          Seizure list Ext.1/2          Signature of P.W.2 Ext.1/3          Signature of P.W.3 Ext.1/4          	NONE
Tested	NONE
blue litmus paper Ext.2.	NONE
          Hydrometer test. Ext.2/1          Signature of PW.3 List of Exts.marked for the defence: N i l. S.D.J.M., Sundargarh.	NONE
