IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU      DATED THIS THE 1ST DAY OF MARCH, 2019      BEFORE	PREAMBLE
THE HON'BLE Dr. JUSTICE H.B. PRABHAKARA SASTRY	PREAMBLE
      CRIMINAL APPEAL No.1046 OF 2010	PREAMBLE
BETWEEN:	PREAMBLE
...AppellantSri. Giridhara GanigaS/o. Srinivas Ganiga,Aged about 47 years,Residing at Shreeram Bldg. Board,High School Road,UDUPI(By Sri. R. Srinivasa Gowda, Advocate)AND:Sri. AdarshS/o. P.V.Gopala Krishna,Aged about 34 years,Residing at No.74/A, 12th Main,27th Cross, B.S.K. 2nd Stage,Bangalore-560070.                                                                         ...Respondent(By Sri. P.D. Subramanya, Advocate)                                              *****         	PREAMBLE
This Criminal Appeal is filed under Section 378(4) ofCr.P.C praying to set aside the judgment dated:23.06.2009passed by the Presiding Officer, FTC, Udupi inCrl.A.No.58/2008  acquitting the respondent/accused forthe offence punishable under Section 138 of N.I.Act.         This Criminal Appeal coming on for Hearing, this day,the Court delivered the following:                              J U D G M E N T 	PREAMBLE
In a private complaint filed by the present appellant/complainant under Section 200 of Code of Criminal Procedure (hereinafter referred to as "Cr.P.C." for brevity), against the present respondent/accused, for the offence punishable under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (hereinafter for brevity referred to as "N.I.Act"), the learned III Additional Civil Judge (Jr.Dvn.) & J.M.F.C., Udupi (hereinafter for brevity referred to as "Trial Court"), in C.C.No.5522/2004, pronounced the judgment of conviction, convicting the present respondent/accused -  Sri. Adarsh, on 22-01-2008 and sentenced him to pay a fine of `1,35,000/- and in default, to undergo Simple Imprisonment for a period of one year.	RLC
Against the said judgment and order of conviction, the present respondent/accused- Sri Adarsh preferred a Criminal Appeal No.58/2008 before the learned Presiding Officer, Fast Track Court at Udupi, (hereinafter for brevity referred to as the `Lower Appellate Court'), which by its impugned judgment and order dated 23-06-2009 allowed the appeal filed by the respondent/accused and set aside the judgment of conviction passed by the Trial Court.	RLC
It is challenging the said judgment of acquittal passed by the Lower Appellate Court, the appellant/complainant has preferred this appeal.	FAC
 2. The summary of the case of the complainant in the Trial Court is that, the accused who is his close relative had borrowed a hand loan of a sum of `1,30,000/- on 14-11-2000 for his business purposes.	FAC
In order to discharge the said debt, accused issued to him a cheque bearing No.0531933 dated 14-11-2000 drawn on Vyshya Bank Limited, Udupi Branch, favouring the complainant.	FAC
When presented, the said cheque was returned dishonoured with the banker's endorsement `funds insufficient'.	FAC
Thereafter, the complainant issued a legal notice to the accused calling upon him to pay the cheque amount.	FAC
However, the accused neither made any payment nor replied to the legal notice which constrained the complainant to institute a criminal case against the accused for the offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (hereinafter referred to as the "N.I. Act" for brevity).	FAC
 3. To prove his case, the complainant got himself examined as PW-1 and got marked documents from Exs.P-1 to P-5(a).	FAC
From the side of the accused, four witnesses were examined as DW1 to DW4, wherein the accused himself got examined as DW4 and documents from Exs.D1 to D7 were got marked.	FAC
 4. After hearing both side, the Trial Court by its impugned judgment dated 22-01-2008, convicted the accused for the alleged offence under Section 138 of N.I. Act.	RLC
However, the Lower Appellate Court acquitted the accused of the said offence.	RLC
It is against the said judgment of Lower Appellate Court, the appellant/ complainant has preferred this appeal.	FAC
 5. Even though the appellant as well as the respondent were represented by their counsels, however, considering that the said learned counsels did not appear in the matter for addressing the arguments despite giving them several and sufficient opportunities, this Court, through a detailed order dated 25-01-2019 appointed two learned Advocates from the Panel of the Legal Services Committee of this Court to represent and appear for the appellant and respondent respectively.	FAC
As such, the learned counsels from the Panel of the High Court Legal Services Committee are representing the parties here.	FAC
 6. Lower Court records were called and the same are placed before this Court.	FAC
 7. Heard the arguments from both side and perused the materials placed before this Court including the Lower Court records.	FAC
8. For the sake of convenience, the parties would be hereinafter referred to as per their ranks before the Trial Court.	FAC
9. Learned counsel for the appellant/complainant in his arguments submitted that the issuance of cheque by the accused to the complainant is not in dispute, so also, dishonor of the cheque for the reason `funds insufficient'.	ARG_PETITIONER
The legal notice issued to the accused did not receive any reply or response from the accused.	ARG_PETITIONER
As such, the presumption under Section 139 of the N.I. Act operates in favour of the complainant.	ARG_PETITIONER
Even though the accused was not successful in rebutting the said presumption, the Lower Appellate Court by observing that the complainant failed to prove that he had financial capacity to lend the money, has set aside the judgment of conviction passed by the Trial Court, which finding of the Lower Appellate Court is an erroneous one.	ARG_PETITIONER
10. The learned counsel for the respondent, in his arguments submitted that the accused has explained the circumstances under which these two cheques were given to the complainant by him.	ARG_RESPONDENT
He has made it clear that issuance of a cheque was on the condition that the complainant should execute loan documents.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Since the complainant did not comply the said condition, the cheque got dishonoured.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Thus, the accused was not a borrower and the complainant was in fact the borrower.	ARG_RESPONDENT
 Further, the complainant had no source of income to lend it to the accused has also been brought in his cross-examination, as such, the Lower Appellate Court has rightly pronounced the judgment of acquittal.	ARG_RESPONDENT
11. After going through the entire material placed before this Court, it is not in dispute that the mother of the accused is the younger sister of the complainant's wife, as such the parties are close relatives.	ANALYSIS
Even though the complainant has reiterated the summary of his complaint even in his Examination-in-chief, as PW-1, but the accused in the cross-examination of PW-1 has disclosed his defence contending that the cheque in question along with one more cheque was given by him to the complainant when the complainant was in need of money.	ANALYSIS
However, the issuance of those two cheques was on the condition that the complainant should execute a demand promissory note and furnish a guarantor.	ANALYSIS
Since the complainant failed to comply with the said condition, the accused did not remit the amount to his Bank Account to honour the cheques, due to which, the cheques got dishonoured.	ANALYSIS
The suggestions made to PW-1 in his cross-examination on this loan were not admitted as true by the witness.	ANALYSIS
12. The accused apart from putting his defence in the form of suggestions to PW-1 in his cross- examination, also tendered his evidence as DW-4 and reiterated the same defence as his evidence.	ANALYSIS
However, in his cross- examination, denial suggestions were made to him denying that defence of the accused was a new found story by him.	ANALYSIS
As PW-1 denied the suggestions made to him in his cross-examination, even DW-4 has also denied those suggestions put to him.	ANALYSIS
 13. In the light of the above, the undisputed fact remains that a cheque in question along with one more cheque was admitted as issued by the accused to the complainant.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, once the issuance of cheque stood proved, the presumption under Section 139 of N.I.Act about the existence of the legally enforceable debt operates in favour of the complainant.	ANALYSIS
 14. Section 139 of the N.I. Act speaks about presumption in favour of holder of negotiable instrument.	STA
It says that, unless contrary is proved, it shall be presumed that the holder of a cheque receives the cheque of the nature referred to under Section 138 of the N.I.Act for the discharge in whole or in part of any debt or other liability.	STA
The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Rangappa vs- Sri Mohan, reported in [2010 (11) SCC 441], while analysing Section 139 of N.I.Act, was also pleased to observe that once the issuance of the cheque in favour of the complainant is established, a presumption about the existence of legally enforceable debt forms in favour of the complainant, however, the said presumption is rebuttable.	PRE_RELIED
 15. In order to rebut the presumption accrued in favour of the complainant, the defence taken by the accused is firstly that the issuance of cheque was not towards any legally enforceable debt, but as a debt/loan to the complainant, however, it was conditional.	ARG_RESPONDENT
 16. The second defence taken by the accused was that the complainant had no capacity/source to lend the loan as on the alleged date of lending the loan.	ARG_RESPONDENT
 17. The first contention of the accused that cheque in question was given to the complainant as a loan, however, it was subject to the complainant executing a promissory note and furnishing a guarantor in favour of the accused, was, for the first time, canvassed by the accused in the cross-examination of PW-1.	ANALYSIS
The suggestion made by the accused to PW-1 in that regard has been specifically denied by the complainant.	ANALYSIS
It was suggested to PW-1 that the complainant/PW-1 wanted to join the Police Service as a Sub-Inspector of Police and also wanted to put up a house in a vacant site belonging to him and towards the same, he had taken the loan from the accused.However, the complainant did not admit the same as true.	ANALYSIS
 The accused who got himself examined as DW-4 also reiterated the same stand in his Examination-in- chief.	ANALYSIS
 However, the complainant made denial suggestions to him in his cross-examination.	ANALYSIS
18. In order to show that cheque in question along with one more similar cheque was given to the complainant as a loan, but with a condition of he executing a demand promissory note has been confined only in the form of a suggestion by the accused to the complainant and the same is not supported either by any oral evidence of any other witness or by any documentary evidence.	ANALYSIS
 The said contention that the cheque in question was given as a loan to the complainant cannot be accepted for the following reasons:- [i] The accused though says that he had issued two cheques to the complainant as loan, no where he has stated as to what was the loan amount he wanted to give to the complainant and nowhere he has stated as to the loan amount mentioned in the cheques given by him; [ii] Admittedly, the accused/DW-4 is an educated person working as a Civil Engineer and knows the consequences of issuance of a cheque.	ANALYSIS
DW-4 has made statements in that regard in his cross-examination.	ANALYSIS
That being the case, when he was aware of the consequences of issuance of a cheque, his statement that without getting or before getting the promissory note or the guarantor, he ventured to issue two cheques without any amount mentioned therein, is very difficult to believe.	ANALYSIS
 [iii] If the accused had really intended to give loan to the complainant and cheques were in fact issued to the complainant not as a repayment of the loan, but as a loan by accused himself to the complainant, then, the accused was expected to have sufficient balance in his Bank Account.	ANALYSIS
Admittedly, the cheque when presented, was dishonoured as `funds insufficient'.	ANALYSIS
[iv] No doubt, the accused has given an explanation in his cross-examination that he had arranged money and wanted to remit the money in his account provided the complainant executed the demand promissory note.	ANALYSIS
The accused also stated that he had made financial arrangement through his friend, one Sri.Shekar Kundar of Kemmannu and one Sri. P.B. Aravind of Bengaluru.	ANALYSIS
But, neither of them was examined as witness from the side of the accused.	ANALYSIS
[v] The accused also stated that both those friends had given him money amounting to `3,03,000/- which he had kept with his brother, Vishwas.	ANALYSIS
However, the accused has not stated as to how come he made an arrangement for a sum of `3,03,000/-, when the cheque amount was only for a sum of `1,30,000/-.	ANALYSIS
He has also not examined his brother Vishwas with whom he is said to have kept the said amount.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, the defence of the accused that the cheque in question was given not towards the repayment of the loan, but as a loan to be given by him to the complainant, has neither been established by him, nor would inspire any confidence to believe it.	ANALYSIS
 As such, the first contention of the accused that the cheque in question was given as a loan but not as a repayment towards loan, is not acceptable.	ANALYSIS
 19. The second argument from the aside of the accused which was also his contention in the Lower Appellate Court is that the complainant had no capacity or source to lend the cheque amount to the accused.	ANALYSIS
 20. In that regard, the accused apart from subjecting PW-1 to a detailed cross-examination also got examined three witnesses as DW-1, DW-2 and DW-3 from his side.	ANALYSIS
 In the cross-examination of PW1, it has come out that the complainant/PW-1 was working as a Supervisor in the Family Welfare Department at Udupi since a year to the date of his evidence.	ANALYSIS
Prior to that, he was working as a Warden at Government Hostel at Udupi and drawing monthly salary of a sum of `9,000/-.	ANALYSIS
PW-1 has also stated that in the year 2000, which is the relevant year in this case of loan transaction, he was getting monthly salary of a sum of `8,000/-, and out of it, he used to incur expenditure of a sum of `3,000/- to `4,000/- towards maintenance of the family and rest of the amount, he was saving.	ANALYSIS
Thus, according to PW-1, every month, he was saving not less than `4,000/- to `5,000/- per month.	ANALYSIS
The said statement of the witness has not been denied or disputed in his further cross- examination.	ANALYSIS
 21. So far as the availability of fund with the complainant to lend the amount to the accused at the time of the alleged loan is concerned, PW-1 in his very same cross-examination has also stated that he had lent the amount out of the savings made by him in his salary and also the amount that he had kept in his house.	ANALYSIS
He has also stated that he does not remember as to how much amount he had kept at home and how much money he had withdrawn from his Bank Account.	ANALYSIS
 22. In order to show that the complainant had no sufficient funds in his Bank Account, the accused, apart from examining himself, got examined three witnesses from his side as DW-1, DW-2, and DW-3.	ANALYSIS
DW-1, the then Manager of Canara Bank, Town Branch, Udupi has stated that the Savings Bank Account No.15459 was pertaining to the complainant - Sri. Giriraj Ganiga and that there was no entry of any withdrawal made from his Bank Account on 14-10-2000 as well as on 14-11-2000.	ANALYSIS
A Bank Statement was marked as Ex.D1.	ANALYSIS
However, in his cross-examination, he has stated that he cannot give details or explanation with respect to all other entries shown in Ex.D1.	ANALYSIS
 DW-2 is a Senior Manager of Syndicate Bank, Founders' Branch, Udupi.	ANALYSIS
After marking the document said to have been issued by his Branch as Ex.D2, the witness has stated that the said document is with respect to the Savings Bank Account No.296 in their Branch, standing in the name of the complainant.	ANALYSIS
The witness has stated, in the year 2000, there was only one entry on 13-08-2000, which was with respect to withdrawal of a sum of `52/- towards dividend warrant amount.	ANALYSIS
The balance found in the said Bank Account of the complainant in the year 2000 was only a sum of `360/-.	ANALYSIS
 DW-3, the Managing Director of Udupi Taluk Lamp Co-operative Society has stated that the documents shown to him and marked as Ex.D3 was with respect to the Savings Bank Account No.2099 standing in the name of the complainant, which Account was opened on 13-02-2001.	ANALYSIS
 23. From the above evidence of DW-1, DW-2 and DW-3, though it could be inferred that as on 14-11-2000, there was no balance equivalent to the alleged loan amount in any of or all the three bank accounts of the complainant put together, but it is not the case of the complainant that he had only these three bank accounts and did not have any other account in his name.	ANALYSIS
24. It was not even suggested to PW-1 in his cross-examination that except these three bank accounts with respect to whom DW-1, DW-2 and DW-3 were examined, the complainant had no other accounts in any other banks.  	ANALYSIS
Further, it is also not the statement of PW-1 that he withdrew any portion of the loan amount from any one of these three bank accounts and on any particular day, more particularly on 14-11- 2000 or 14-10-2000.	ANALYSIS
That being the case, without ascertaining from PW-1 or without suggesting to PW-1 that he had only these three bank accounts and that he had withdrawn a particular sum from any of these three bank accounts on a particular date, merely examining three bank officials would not help the accused in any manner to establish or show that the complainant had no capacity to lend money.	ANALYSIS
25. As already observed above, the complainant has no where stated that it is only after withdrawing the amount from a particular bank account, on a particular date that he has lent money to the accused.	ANALYSIS
But it is his specific case that he had some money kept in his house and some amount he withdrew from the bank.	ANALYSIS
He has not stated how much he withdrew from his bank account and from which bank and on what date.	ANALYSIS
 26. Thus, the contention of the accused that the complainant had no financial source or capacity to lend money, is not acceptable.	ANALYSIS
His attempt to rebut the presumption has fallen short of giving him the favour he was expecting.	ANALYSIS
 27. The Lower Appellate Court, without analyzing the evidence in its proper perspective, has been carried away only by the evidence of DW-1, DW-2 and DW-3 and jumped to a conclusion that the complainant had no financial capacity to lend money which resulted in it setting aside the judgment of the Trial Court which was a very reasoned one after due appreciation of the evidence placed before it.	ANALYSIS
 28. In such a situation, when the issuance of cheque in favour of the complainant is an admitted fact and the presumption under Section 139 of the N.I. Act was operating in favour of the complainant and when the accused could not able to rebut the said presumption, though he has led his evidence and examined few witnesses, the only inference that could be drawn is that the complainant could able to prove the alleged guilt against the accused beyond reasonable doubts.	ANALYSIS
However, the Lower Appellate Court, as observed above, has wrongly reversed the finding of the Trial Court and acquitted the accused.	ANALYSIS
 29. The Trial Court since has appropriately held the accused guilty of the alleged offence after appreciating the evidence placed before it in its proper perspective, I do not find any reason to interfere in the said finding.	RATIO
Since the Trial Court has also ordered the sentence which is proportionate to the criminality of the proven guilt, I do not find any reason to modify the said sentence part of the offence also.	RATIO
30. As such, the said judgment of the Lower Appellate Court which is challenged in this appeal deserves to be set aside and the judgment of the Trial Court requires to be restored and confirmed.	RATIO
 Accordingly, I proceed to pass the following: ORDER The Appeal filed by complainant/appellant is allowed.	RPC
        The judgment of acquittal passed by the learned Presiding Officer, Fast Track Court, Udupi, dated 23-06-2009 in Criminal Appeal No.58/2008 is hereby set aside; and the judgment of conviction passed by the learned III Additional Civil Judge (Jr.Dn.) & JMFC, Udupi, dated 22-01-2008 in Criminal Case No.5522/2004 is restored and hereby confirmed.        	RPC
The Registry is directed to transmit a copy of this judgment to the Trial Court forthwith along with Lower Court records, to enable it to proceed further in the matter in accordance with law.	RPC
        Considering the effort put by the learned counsel for the complainant as also the learned counsel for the respondent from the panel Advocates of the High Court Legal Services Committee, it is recommended to the Committee to consider the remuneration/ honorarium payable to the learned counsels at not less than `4,000/- to each Advocate.	RPC
 An entire copy of this judgment also be delivered to the respondent/accused immediately, free of cost. Sd/- JUDGE BMV*	NONE
