IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU         DATED THIS THE 13TH DAY OF JUNE 2019                                   BEFORE	PREAMBLE
   THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE S. SUNIL DUTT YADAV            CRIMINAL PETITION No.3075/2019BETWEEN:                                  	PREAMBLE
... Petitioner                                       ...	PREAMBLE
RespondentKenneth Jideofor,	PREAMBLE
S/o Nwabnwanne,	PREAMBLE
Aged about 24 years,	PREAMBLE
R/at House No.32, 2nd "A" Cross,	PREAMBLE
Behind ASR Convention Hall,Vijaya Bank Colony Extention,Banaswadi, Horamavu,Kalyannagar,Bengaluru-560043.(By Sri Kaleem Sabir., Advocate forSri. Hashmath Pasha, Senior Advcoate)AND:Union of India,Narcotic Control Bureau,Bengaluru Zonal Unit,Bengaluru-560063,Represented by learnedSpecial Public ProsecutorMr. K.N.Mohan.	PREAMBLE
(By Sri K.N. Mohan, SPP)         This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of theCode of the Criminal Procedure, praying to enlarge him onbail in Cr.No.NCB file No.F/48/1/1/19/BZU on the file ofthe respondent Union of India/Narcotic Control BureauBengaluru Zonal Unit, Bengaluru which is pending inCrl.Misc.No.3434/2019 on the file of the XXXIII AdditionalCity Civil and Sessions Judge and Special Judge for NDPScases (CCH-33) Bengaluru for the offences under Section 8(c)read with Section 21, 29 of NDP Act.         This Criminal Petition coming on for Orders, this day,the Court made the following:                                    ORDER        	PREAMBLE
The petitioner is seeking to be enlarged on bail in connection with his detention pursuant to proceedings in Crime No.NCB File No.F/48/1/1/10/BZU with respect to the offences punishable under Sections 8(c) read with Sections 21 & 29 of Narcotic, Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (for short `the Act').	FAC
 2. The case made out by the prosecution is that on 17.01.2019 information was received by the Intelligence Officer of NCB that one Nigerian National- accused No.1 was traveling from Mumbai to Bengaluru and was carrying Cocaine with him and was likely to get down in Kalasipalya.	FAC
On the basis of such information, it is stated that the bus was followed by the Officers of NCB and when the bus came near Kalasipalya bus stop, accused No.1 was taken into custody and on the information obtained from accused No.1, it is stated that he has brought the Cocaine to give it to Victor and his two associates, who were waiting near KFC at Kammanahalli.	FAC
The Officers were stated to have taken accused No.1 and when they reached to the said spot, it is stated that they found three Africans were sitting in Silver Colour Car and when they were intercepted and enquired one of them, identified himself as Victor and other two persons were also taken to custody along with Victor to the Office of NCB and when searched, Cocaine of 400 grams was found from accused No.1 and it was seized.	FAC
It is stated that the petitioner-accused No.4 is in custody since 18.01.2019.	FAC
 3. Learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner states that there has been no recovery from the accused and the story of prosecution is not believable as there is no sufficient material to show as to why the seizure has not been done when accused No.1 disembarked from the bus.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is also contended that the petitioner has been fixed in a false case, considering that there is another case against the petitioner.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is also contended that the role of accused No.3 is similar to that of accused Nos.2 and 4 and accused No.2 has been released by the order of trial Court dated 25.04.2019 and accused No.4 has been released as per the order dated 09.04.2019 in Crl.P.No.1332/2019 by this Court.	ARG_PETITIONER
Hence, the petitioner is also entitled to be enlarged on bail on the ground of principle of parity.	ARG_PETITIONER
 4. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of NCB states that the principle of parity is not a fixed rule and considering the criminal antecedents, the petitioner is not entitled for any relief.	ARG_RESPONDENT
 5. Noticing the observations made by this Court, while enlarging accused No.4 on bail in Crl.P.No.1332/2019, wherein at paragraph No.4, the Court has observed and expressed doubts regarding the procedure followed with respect to seizure and also noticing that there was no recovery from the petitioner in the said case and that recovery made was only from accused No.1, the case of the petitioner is to be considered.	ANALYSIS
The observation at paragraph No.7 reveals that there was no recovery from the accused and only material relied upon was the statement given by the petitioner in that case.	ANALYSIS
As regards the statement under Section 67 of Act, it is observed that the veracity of the said statement is a matter to be appreciated in the trial.	ANALYSIS
 6. Accordingly, taking note of the observations made as regards accused No.4 as well as noticing accused No.2 has also been enlarged on bail, the petitioner is similarly placed as accused Nos.2 and 4 and there has been no recovery and noticing that the statement under Section 67 of Act recorded is a matter to be proved during trial, case is made out to enlarge the petitioner on bail.	ANALYSIS
 7. Though, it is the contention of the learned counsel appearing for the prosecution that criminal antecedents is also a matter to be taken note, it is to be noted that though criminal antecedents would weigh in the mind of Court, the strength of the case and the material on record with respect to the matter on hand is to be a supervening factor.	ANALYSIS
In the present case, admittedly there has been no seizure from the petitioner and the recovery is only from accused No.1.	RATIO
Hence, by imposing strict conditions, the petition is to be allowed.	RATIO
 8. It is to be noticed that the petitioner's passport has already been seized in connection with proceedings in Cr.No.415/2016 as per column No.21(b) of Narcotic, Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 and Section 14 of Foreigners Act.	ANALYSIS
 Accordingly, the petition is allowed subject to the following conditions: (i) Petitioner shall execute a personal bond for a sum of Rs.1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh only) with two local sureties for the likesum to the satisfaction of the trial Court. (ii) Petitioner shall not leave the jurisdiction of the trial Court without prior permission.	RPC
 (iii) Petitioner shall mark his attendance once in 15 days between 10.00 a.m., and 5.00 p.m., before the Banaswadi Police and Inspector of the Banaswadi Police Station is directed to intimate the NCB about his attendance till the charge sheet is filed.	RPC
 (iv) Petitioner shall not tamper with the prosecution evidence directly or indirectly.	RPC
 (v) Petitioner shall regularly appear before the trial Court for trial, without fail.	RPC
 (vi) Petitioner shall not indulge in similar type of criminal activities.	RPC
If he involves himself in similar type of criminal activities, the bail is liable to be cancelled.	RPC
 (vii) Petitioner shall furnish permanent address.	RPC
 Sd/- JUDGE GJM	NONE
