     TITLE SHEET FOR JUDGMENTS IN APPEALS IN THE COURT OF THE I ADDITIONAL DISTRICT JUDGE AT MYSORE Dated this the 12th day of July, 2013	PREAMBLE
Present: Sri N.Rudramuni, B.Com., LL.M., I Addl. District Judge, Mysore.	PREAMBLE
*** REGULAR	PREAMBLE
APPEAL No.93/2012	PREAMBLE
Appellants:   S.Pradeep, S/o V.Srinivasaiah, Respondents:	PREAMBLE
 R/at No.6, 14th Cross, 6th Main, V.V.Mohalla, Mysore,	PREAMBLE
Since dead by legal representatives: 1. S.N.Jayashree, aged about 48 years, W/o Late S.Pradeep, 2. P.Pooja, aged about 22 years, D/o Late S.Pradeep, 3. P.Sanjana, aged about 19 years, D/o Late S.Pradeep, All are R/at D.No.593, Opposite  to	PREAMBLE
 Bharath Diagnostics, Irwin Road, Mysore	PREAMBLE
. ( By Sri.N.Nagaraj, Advocate ) -Vs- 1. H.S.Jayalakshmi, W/o Late K.S.Sambaiah, aged about 60 years, R/at No.42/Anjum 1st Main, 3rd Cross, Yadavagiri, Mysore-570 002. 2 2. V.Srinivasaiah,                   S/o S.Venkatappa, aged about 79 years, 3. Vanajakshi, W/o V.Srinivasaiah Aged about 73 years, R.2 & 3 are R/at No.6, 6th Main, 14th Cross, V.V.Mohalla, Mysore  2. ( R.1 by Sri.B.P.Yogamurthy, Advocate R.2 & 3 by Smt.M.S.Savithri, Advocate ) *** Date of institution of appeal:               14.02.2012 Nature of appeal:                    To set aside the Judgment and decree passed by learned Date on which the Judgment           Principal Judge, Small Causes was pronounced:                      Court & Senior Civil Judge, Mysore in O.S.No.782/2006 dated 02.01.2012. 12.07.2013 Total Duration:                      Year/s  Month/s       Day/s 01        04           28	PREAMBLE
*** ( N.Rudramuni )	PREAMBLE
I Additional District Judge, Mysore.	PREAMBLE
3  R.A. No.93/2012 JUDGMENT	PREAMBLE
This is an appeal assailed against Judgment and decree passed by learned Principal Judge, Small Causes Court and Senior Civil Judge, Mysore in O.S.No.782/2006 dated 02.01.2012.	FAC
The learned Trial Judge, by his impugned judgment, decreed the suit of the plaintiff filed for recovery of money of Rs.1,62,975/- along with interest.	RLC
2. Appellants herein were the defendants-1 to 3, respondent No.1 herein was the plaintiff and respondents-2 and 3 herein were the defendants-4 and 5 in the original proceedings.	FAC
Parties will be referred to with reference to their ranks they held in the Trial Court for sake of convenience.	FAC
3. Briefly stated case of the parties is narrated hereunder: Plaintiff filed suit for recovery of money due under Pronote executed by deceased defendant. 	FAC
The original borrower-S.Pradeep is no more.	FAC
Hence, the present suit is filed against his legal representatives.	FAC
On 13.09.2004, Sri.Pradeep approached the plaintiff for financial assistance of Rs.1,50,000/- for the purpose of construction of house and also for domestic use.	FAC
He agreed to repay the amount within 12 months with interest at the rate of 24% per annum.	FAC
The plaintiff, on the same day, at his request, lent Rs.1,50,000/-, in consideration thereof, he executed Pronote for Rs.1,50,000/- undertaking to repay the same with interest.	FAC
On 10.01.2005, he had repaid Rs.20,000/- towards loan amount through his father.	FAC
The same was endorsed on the overleaf of 4 the Pronote and Consideration Receipt.	FAC
On 10.01.2005, said Pradeep issued a cheque bearing No.475312 for Rs.1,30,000/- drawn on H.D.F.C. Bank for the balance amount, as additional security.	FAC
He had paid interest upto 30.06.2005.	FAC
However on 27.07.2005, he met with untimely death.	FAC
After his death, defendants-1 to 3, who are his legal heirs, had agreed to repay the loan.	FAC
But, inspite of several demands and notice, they failed to make payment.	FAC
The plaintiff caused legal notice on the defendants.	FAC
But the defendants sent evasive reply notice.	FAC
Plaintiff was therefore constrained to file the suit.	FAC
 4.  On registration of suit, summons were issued to the defendants, who entered their appearance through their Counsels.	FAC
Defendants-1 to 3 appeared through Sri.Nagaraj, while defendants-4 and 5 appeared through Smt.Savithri.	FAC
Both of them have filed separate written statements.	FAC
 5. Defendants-1 to 3, in their written statement, denied all the contentions raised by the plaintiff in her plaint.	FAC
They, interalia contended that deceased Pradeep was not a friend of plaintiff and there was no acquaintance or friendship with her.	FAC
4th defendant-Srinivasaiah, the father of deceased Pradeep and the plaintiff were close associates and friends and they are jointly doing money lending business since a long time.Deceased Pradeep was working as a Superintending Engineer at O.N.G.C., Bombay, he was getting handsome salary and therefore, he had no necessity to raise loan from the private party, much less from the plaintiff.	FAC
If at all he was in need of money, he would have raised loan from the Nationalised Banks.	FAC
He never received cash of Rs.1,50,000/- from the plaintiff nor 5  R.A. No.93/2012 did he execute Pronote or Consideration Receipt.	FAC
4th defendant, taking undue advantage of his position, obtained blank cheque of his son and handed it over to the plaintiff.	FAC
Deceased Pradeep had not repaid Rs.20,000/- towards interest nor had he instructed 4th defendant to subscribe his signature on the overleaf of Pronote.	FAC
This is all created by 4th defendant in collusion with the plaintiff.	FAC
They would therefore pray for dismissal of the suit.	FAC
6. Defendants-4 and 5, in their written statement, contended that after the death of Pradeep, defendants-1 to 3 became hostile towards defendants-4 and 5 and left their house.	FAC
5th defendant, being Class-I heir of deceased Pradeep, has filed suit for partition in O.S.No.112/2006, which is still pending for consideration.	FAC
4th defendant is not a necessary party, as he has no share in the property of his son.	FAC
5th defendant is not liable to pay loan borrowed by the deceased for his legal necessity.	FAC
It is relevant to mention here that defendants-4 and 5 have not denied the transaction between their son Pradeep and the plaintiff.	FAC
 7. On the basis of above pleadings, the learned Trial Judge has framed the following Issues and Additional Issues: ISSUES 1) Whether the plaintiff proves that on 13.09.2004, the deceased defendant has borrowed the loan of Rs.1,50,000/- from her by executing the on demand pronote and consideration receipt as alleged ?	ISSUE
 6 2) Whether the plaintiff is entitled for the interest claimed ? 3) What order ?	ISSUE
ADDITIONAL ISSUES 1) Whether defendants prove that plaintiff is money lender without having valid money lending licence ? 2) Whether defendants prove that plaintiff has obtained signature of Sri.V.Sreenivasaiah on blank form of pronote and consideration receipt as alleged ? 3) Whether defendants prove that suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary parties ? 8.	ISSUE
Plaintiff, on her behalf, examined herself as P.W.1 and examined scribe and witnesses of Pronote cum Consideration Receipt as P.Ws.2 to 4.	FAC
They have produced ten documents which are at Ex.P.1 to P.10.	FAC
Defendant No.1 is examined as D.W.1, but no document is marked on her behalf.	FAC
9.  Learned Trial Judge, having regard to the oral and documentary evidence, decreed the suit of the plaintiff with cost and interest, recoverable out of the estate of the deceased Pradeep from defendants-1 to 3. 10.	FAC
Appellants/defendants-1 to 3, felt aggrieved by the said Judgment and decree, preferred this appeal on the following amongst other grounds:	FAC
The learned Trial Judge erred in passing the impugned judgment and decree without considering the actual facts of the defendants' 7  R.A. No.93/2012 case and in decreeing the suit only against defendants-1 to 3 by deleting defendants-4 and 5 from the liability.	FAC
 The learned Trial Judge has committed injustice in presuming the fact with regard to the identifying of signature of S.Pradeep in Ex.P.1 and P.1(a) by the 1st defendant.	FAC
 The learned Trial Judge erred in not considering the fact that 4th defendant, in connivance of the plaintiff, fabricated Ex.P.1 to make liable the defendants-1 to 3 to clear the debt.	FAC
The learned Trial Judge erred in not observing the fact that 4th defendant admitted that he has paid amount of Rs.20,000/- to the plaintiff as part of settlement towards loan amount and in this regard shara was made on the backside of Ex.P.1. 	FAC
The learned Trial Judge wrongly appreciated the sworn testimony of P.W.3, who was a planted witness by 4th defendant.	FAC
Though Trial Court held that plaintiff has not given satisfactory evidence with regard to the alleged borrowal of money by deceased Pradeep for specific purpose and as such defendants-1 to 5 are not personally liable to repay the loan amount, it has erred in coming to the conclusion that the plaintiff is entitled for the recovery of loan amount.	FAC
The learned Trial Judge has no 8 definite stand in passing the impugned judgment, which relates to surmises.	FAC
 The learned Trial Judge has not considered the Citations placed by the defendants-1 to 3. The impugned judgment and decree of the Trial Court is opposed to law and against the principles of natural justice. 11.	FAC
Heard arguments of the learned Counsels appearing on behalf of the appellants and respondents.	NONE
12. Points that arise for my consideration are: 1) Whether the finding of the Trial Court that the plaintiff proved that the deceased Pradeep borrowed loan of Rs.1,50,000/- from her by executing on-demand pronote and consideration receipt, is illegal and perverse, which warrants the interference of this Court?	ISSUE
 2) Whether the finding of the Trial Court that the defendants-1 to 3 failed to prove additional issue No.2 that the plaintiff has obtained signatures of Pradeep on blank pronote and consideration receipt, is illegal and perverse, which warrants the interference of this Court ?	ISSUE
 3) Whether the Trial Court has committed error in not fastening liability on defendant No.5 along with defendants-1 to 3 to discharge the debt ?	ISSUE
 9  R.A. No.93/2012 4) Whether the judgment and decree of the Trial Court are illegal and perverse, which warrant the interference of this Court ? 5) What order or decree ?	ISSUE
 13. My answers to the above points are as follows: Point No.(1) : In the Negative, Point No.(2) : In the Negative, Point No.(3) : In the Affirmative, Point No.(4) : In the Negative, However, defendant No.5 is also made liable along with defendants-1 to 3 to discharge liability of deceased Pradeep,	ANALYSIS
Point No.(5) : As per the final order, for the following: REASONS 14.	ANALYSIS
Points No.1 and 2	ANALYSIS
: As points No.1 and 2 are inter-linked, they are taken up together for consideration to avoid repetition.	ANALYSIS
 15. As stated above, plaintiff in order to prove her case, has been examined herself as P.W.1 and defendant No.4 is examined on her behalf as P.W.2.	FAC
One Sri.M.K.Nagendra, one of the attestants to Ex.P.1-Pronote and P.1(a)-Consideration Receipt, is examined as P.W.3.	FAC
Sri.Ashok M.Rao, who is Manager of H.D.F.C. Bank, Saraswathipuram Branch wherein deceased was holding an Account, is examined as P.W.4 to prove the genesis and origin of the cheque.	FAC
10 16. P.W.1, in her chief-examination, reiterated the plaint averments.	FAC
She produced seven documents which are at Exs.P.1 to 7.	FAC
Amongst them, Ex.P.1 is the on-demand pronote, Ex.P.2 is the cheque, Ex.P.3 is the legal notice issued by the plaintiff to defendants-1 to 3, Exs.P.4 to 6 are postal acknowledgements and Ex.P.7 is the reply notice of defendants- 1 to 3 to plaintiff's Counsel.	FAC
In her cross-examination, it is elicited that her husband is a retired Sub-Registrar and a good friend of defendant No.4.	FAC
She admitted that deceased Pradeep was working as Superintending Engineer in O.N.G.C., Mumbai.	FAC
But, she denied the suggestion that Exs.P.1 and 2 are created by this witness in collusion with P.W.2-Srinivasaiah.	FAC
 17. P.W.2 is none else than the father of deceased Pradeep.	FAC
He deposed that his son Pradeep borrowed Rs.1,50,000/- from the plaintiff for construction of house and also for domestic use.	FAC
On 13.09.2004, he received the said amount by executing a pronote and consideration receipt.	FAC
He had agreed to repay the loan within 12 months with interest at the rate of 24% per annum.	FAC
He further deposed that Pradeep had sent Rs.20,000/- and requested him to pay it to the plaintiff.	FAC
He, on behalf of his son, paid the said amount to plaintiff and endorsed on the overleaf of the pronote.	FAC
He further stated that his son Pradeep issued cheque for Rs.1,30,000/- as security towards the arrears of loan amount.	FAC
In cross-examination, it is elicited that deceased was not used to mingle with the public, he used to get loan from his own Company and Bank.	FAC
But, he denied the suggestion that he had not borrowed loan from plaintiff and had not issued cheque towards the arrears and Exs.P.1 and 2 are concocted by himself and P.W.1.	FAC
 11  R.A. No.93/2012 18. P.W.3, corroborating the version of P.W.1, deposed that on 13.09.2004, deceased Pradeep borrowed Rs.1,50,000/- from the plaintiff, in his presence, executed an on-demand pronote agreeing to repay the said amount with interest.	FAC
 19. P.W.4 is the Manager of Bank, who deposed that deceased was holding Account in his Bank and he could identify his signature on Account's Opening Form, Nomination Form and Requisition Form, which are at Exs.P.8 to 10.	FAC
He further stated that Ex.P.2-cheque was issued to Pradeep from his Bank.	FAC
It is relevant to note here that this witness was not cross-examined by either parties.	FAC
 20. D.W.1-Smt.Jayashree, in her chief-examination, reiterated the averments in the written statement.	FAC
In her cross- examination, when signatures found on Ex.P.1 and P.2 were confronted to her, she expressed her ignorance.	FAC
She stated that she cannot identify those signatures.	FAC
It is further elicited that defendants-4 and 5 filed suit for partition against her and her children.	FAC
It is further elicited that 5th defendant had not obtained any service benefits of Pradeep.	FAC
She denied all the suggestions made to her by the learned Counsels appearing for plaintiff and defendants-4 and 5. 21.	FAC
From the pleadings, oral and documentary evidence discussed supra, Court can make out the following facts, which are not controverted by the parties: "Deceased Pradeep was working as Superintending Engineer at O.N.G.C., Bombay and was a Class-I Officer.	ANALYSIS
He was native of Mysore and often used to 12 visit Mysore.	ANALYSIS
Defendant No.1 is his wife, defendants-2 and 3 are his daughters, while defendants-4 and 5 are his parents.	ANALYSIS
He unfortunately died while in service.	ANALYSIS
Plaintiff is the wife of a retired Sub-Registrar.	ANALYSIS
Defendant No.4 is retired Additional Deputy Commissioner in Revenue Department."	ANALYSIS
 22. Now, the moot point that arises for consideration of this Court is, whether Ex.P.1 was executed by Pradeep in consideration of Rs.1,50,000/- borrowed for construction of his house and personal benefit.	ANALYSIS
In so far as purpose of loan is concerned, plaintiff failed to prove it.	ANALYSIS
However, she by producing documents such as Exs.P.1 and 2 and by examining P.Ws.3 and 4, is able to prove that signatures found on Exs.P.1 and P.2 were of deceased Pradeep.	ANALYSIS
On bare perusal of signatures on Exs.P.1 and 2 with the signatures on admitted documents-Exs.P.8 to 10, it could be easily inferred that they belong to one person.	ANALYSIS
It seems, defendants-1 to 3 have not seriously disputed the signatures on Exs.P.1 and 2.	ANALYSIS
As a matter of prelude, they in their reply notice which is marked at Ex.P.7 and in the written statement, contended that defendant No.4 obtained signatures of Pradeep on blank papers and converted them into valuable documents.	ANALYSIS
But, this appears to be not true, because, even the handwriting found in Exs.P.1 and 9 appear to have been written by the same person.	ANALYSIS
This Court, by exercising its power conferred under Section 73 of Indian Evidence Act, compared the signatures found in Ex.P.1 with the signatures on Exs.P.8 to 10 and found that they are one and the same. 13  R.A. No.93/2012 23. D.W.1, by expressing her ignorance to signature of her husband, did not act fairly.	ANALYSIS
She, being an educated lady, could have accepted or rejected the signature.	ANALYSIS
She tried to play safe by expressing her ignorance, which cannot be appreciated by the Court.	ANALYSIS
P.W.4, in his evidence, clearly deposed that signatures found on Exs.P.8 to 10 were of deceased Pradeep and even cheque which is marked at Ex.P.2 was issued by his Bank in favour of the deceased.	ANALYSIS
This evidence has remained unchallenged by the defendants.	ANALYSIS
Even if evidence of P.W.2 is ignored in view of their personal rivalry, nevertheless, evidence of P.Ws.1, 3 and 4 is sufficient to hold that signatures found on Ex.P.1 and P.2 were of the deceased Pradeep.	ANALYSIS
Although defendants-1 to 3 have raised several contentions that plaintiff, in collusion with defendant No.4, created these documents, nevertheless, there is no satisfactory evidence to substantiate their stand.	ANALYSIS
Oral and documentary evidence produced by the plaintiff clearly establishes that signature which is marked at Ex.P.1(a) and in P.2 were of deceased S.Pradeep.	ANALYSIS
Plaintiff has successfully proved this fact.	ANALYSIS
 24. Once signatures on promissory note and consideration receipt are proved, plaintiff would get the benefit of presumption, as available under Section 118 of Negotiable Instruments' Act.	ANALYSIS
Section 118 of Negotiable Instruments Act envisages that: "Presumptions as to negotiable instruments.- Until the contrary is proved, the following presumptions shall be made:- (a) of consideration.- that every negotiable instrument was made or drawn for consideration, and that every such instrument, when it has been accepted, indorsed, negotiated or transferred, was 14 accepted, indorsed, negotiated or transferred, for consideration; (b) as to date.- that every negotiable instrument bearing a date was made or drawn on such date; (c) as to time of acceptance.- that every accepted bill of exchange was accepted within a reasonable time after its date and before its maturity; (d) as to time of transfer.- that every transfer of a negotiable instrument was made before its maturity; (e) as to order of indorsement.- that the indorsements appearing upon a negotiable instrument were made in the order in which they appear thereon; (f) as to stamps.- that a lost promissory note, bill or exchange or cheque was duly stamped; (g) that holder is a holder in due course.- that the holder of a negotiable instrument is a holder in due course: provided that, where the instrument has been obtained from its lawful owner, or from any person in lawful custody thereof, by means of an offence or fraud, or has been obtained from the maker or acceptor thereof by means of an offence or fraud, or for unlawful consideration, the burden of proving that the holder is a holder in due course lies upon him." 25.	STA
Burden shifts on the defendants-1 to 3 to rebut the legal presumption available in favour of the plaintiff by adducing cogent evidence.	ANALYSIS
But, defendants-1 to 3 failed to adduce any evidence which rebuts the presumption.	ANALYSIS
This Court has to therefore necessarily hold that plaintiff succeeded in proving the fact that deceased Pradeep borrowed a loan of Rs.1,50,000/- 15  R.A. No.93/2012 from her and executed on-demand pronote and consideration receipt dated 13.09.2004.	ANALYSIS
 26. Trial Court, having regard to this oral and documentary evidence, has answered issues-1 and 2 and additional issue No.2 in the affirmative.	ANALYSIS
On overall re-appreciation of entire evidence, I do not find any illegality or perversity in the impugned findings.	ANALYSIS
I have accordingly answered these points in the negative.	ANALYSIS
 27. Points No.3 and 4:	ANALYSIS
In so far as liability to discharge loan is concerned, it appears, the learned Trial Judge has committed error in fastening liability only on defendants-1 to 3.	ANALYSIS
Admittedly, defendant No.5, the mother of deceased Pradeep, falls under the category of Class-I heir.	ANALYSIS
It may be true that at present, she has not received any service benefits of the deceased.	ANALYSIS
As per the evidence of D.W.1, defendants No.1 to 3 have also not yet received all the benefits.	ANALYSIS
Certain benefits are yet to be received by them.	ANALYSIS
Defendant No.5, being the Class-I heir, can claim her share at any point of time.	ANALYSIS
Admittedly, defendant No.5 has filed suit against defendants-1 to 3 claiming her share in the property of her son-deceased Pradeep.	ANALYSIS
When she is claiming her right in the estate of deceased, she is also liable to discharge the loan borrowed by her son.	ANALYSIS
Defendant No.5 cannot blow hot and cold simultaneously.	ANALYSIS
She cannot simply claim her right over the property and absolve from her liability to discharge legal debt.	ANALYSIS
She, along with defendants-1 to 3, is jointly and severally liable to discharge the debt of Pradeep.	ANALYSIS
Judgment and decree of the learned Trial Judge to this extent are liable to be modified.	ANALYSIS
 16 Accordingly, I have answered point No.3 in the affirmative and point No.4 in the negative.	ANALYSIS
 28. Point No.5:	ANALYSIS
In the result and for the reasons stated above, I proceed to pass the following Order: ORDER Appeal filed by the appellants-1 to 3 under Order 41 Rule 1 r/w Section 96 of C.P.C., is hereby dismissed.	RPC
No order as cost.	RPC
Impugned Judgment and decree of the Trial Court in O.S.No.782/2006 dated 02.01.2012, stand confirmed, subject to following modification: The plaintiff is entitled to recover the suit claim of Rs.1,62,975/- along with interest at the rate of 7% per annum from the date of suit till its realisation, out of the estate of the deceased Pradeep from defendants-1 to 3 and 5. Suit against defendant No.4 which was dismissed by the Trial Court stands affirmed. Draw decree accordingly. Transmit copy of the Judgment along with L.C.R. to the Trial Court forthwith. (Dictated to the Judgment Writer, transcribed by her, corrected and then pronounced by me in the open Court on this the 12th day of July, 2013.)	RPC
( N.Rudramuni )	NONE
I Additional District Judge, Mysore.	NONE
 17  R.A. No.93/2012 Judgment pronounced in open Court (vide separate Judgment) ORDER Appeal filed by the appellants-1 to 3 under Order 41 Rule 1 r/w Section 96 of 18 C.P.C., is hereby dismissed.	NONE
No order as cost.	NONE
 Impugned Judgment and decree of the Trial Court in O.S.No.782/2006 dated 02.01.2012, stand confirmed, subject to following modification: The plaintiff is entitled to recover the suit claim of Rs.1,62,975/- along with interest at the rate of 7% per annum from the date of suit till its realisation, out of the estate of the deceased Pradeep from defendants-1 to 3 and 5. Suit against defendant No.4 which was dismissed by the Trial Court stands affirmed. Draw decree accordingly. Transmit copy of the Judgment along with L.C.R. to the Trial Court forthwith. I Addl. District Judge, Mysore.	NONE
