PETITIONER:KISHORE CHANDVs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT29/08/1990BENCH:RAMASWAMY, K.BENCH:RAMASWAMY, K.SAWANT, P.B.CITATION:                  1990 SCR Supl. (1) 105 1990 AIR 2140             JT 1990 (3) 662 1991 SCC (1) 286 1990 SCALE (2)369ACT:       Indian Penal Code, 1860: ss. 302 & 201--Conviction basedon circumstantial evidence--Facts consistent with innocenceof accused-Whether entitled to benefit of doubt--Tendency offree fabrication of record to implicate innocents in capitaloffence deprecated.       Constitution of India: Articles 14, 19, 21 & 39A/Univer-sal Declaration of Human Rights: Articles 3 & 10--Indigentaccused--Right to liberty and life, equal justice and freelegal aid--Need to assign experienced amicus curiae toensure effective and meaningful defence emphasised.	PREAMBLE
HEADNOTE:       The appellant was convicted under ss. 302 and 201 readwith s. 34 IPC.	PREAMBLE
The prosecution case was that he and thedeceased were last seen together in village J on November10, 1974 by PW. 7, owner of a dhaba-cum-liquor shop, and PW.8, and all of them had consumed liquor.	PREAMBLE
The deceased had bythen become tipsy.	PREAMBLE
Thereafter the appellant and the deceasedhad boarded a truck driven by A-2 and A-3, the cleaner.	PREAMBLE
While they were going in the truck there ensued a quarrelbetween them over some money matters and the appellantattacked the deceased with an iron screw driver, and	PREAMBLE
whenthe latter was half dead all the accused severed his headwith an iron saw and burried the trunk under stones.	PREAMBLE
Thehead was hidden at a different place.	PREAMBLE
Three days later, PW-6, chowkidar of a neighboring village noticed the dead bodyand reported the matter to PW-10, the village pradhan, whoaccompanied him to the spot.	PREAMBLE
PW-6 lodged the FIR the nextmorning.	PREAMBLE
On receiving information that the deceased and theappellant were seen consuming liquor on November 10 theSub-Inspector, PW-27, and PW-10 went to appellant's villageand took him for identification to village J, where PWs 7and 8 identified him as one seen in the company of thedeceased and having consumed liquor.	PREAMBLE
The appellant wasthereafter taken to PW-10's village and PW-27 proceeded forfurther investigation.	PREAMBLE
The appellant then made an extra-judicial confession to PW-10 of having committed the crimewith the help of A-2 and A-3.	PREAMBLE
PW-10 passed on that informa-tion to PW-27 the next day following which the accused werearrested.	PREAMBLE
Thereafter A-2 made a statement under s. 27 ofthe Evidence Act leading to the' discovery of the severedhead.	PREAMBLE
The weapon of offence was also recovered.	PREAMBLE
The HighCourt confirmed the conviction and sentence of the appellantbut acquitted the other two of the charge under s. 302 IPC.	PREAMBLE
Allowing the appeal by special leave, the Court,       HELD: 1.	PREAMBLE
The prosecution has failed to bring home theguilt to the appellant beyond all reasonable doubt and toprove that he alone had committed the crime.	PREAMBLE
He is, there-fore, entitled to the benefit of doubt.	PREAMBLE
[116D]       2.1	PREAMBLE
When there is no direct witness to the commission ofmurder and the case rests entirely on circumstantial evi-dence, all the circumstances from which the conclusion ofthe guilt is to be drawn should be fully and cogently estab-lished.	PREAMBLE
The proved circumstances should be of a conclusivenature and definite tendency unerringly pointing towards theguilt of the accused.	PREAMBLE
Imaginary possibilities have no roleto play.	PREAMBLE
What is to be considered are ordinary human proba-bilities.	PREAMBLE
It is not necessary that each circumstance byitself be conclusive but cumulatively must form unbrokenchain of events leading to the proof of the guilt of theaccused.	PREAMBLE
If any of the said circumstances are consistentwith the innocence of the accused or the chain of the conti-nuity of the circumstances is broken, the accused is enti-tled to the benefit of the doubt.	PREAMBLE
[112D-H	PREAMBLE
]       2.2	PREAMBLE
In assessing the evidence to find these principlesit is necessary to distinguish between facts which may becalled primary or basic facts on one hand and inference offacts to be drawn from them, on the other.	PREAMBLE
In regard to theproof of basic or primary facts, the court has to judge theevidence in the ordinary way and in appreciation of theevidence in proof of those basic facts or primary facts,there is no scope for the application of the doctrine ofbenefit of doubt.	PREAMBLE
The court has to consider the evidence anddecide whether the evidence proves a particular fact or not.	PREAMBLE
Whether that fact leads to the inference of the guilt of theaccused or not is another aspect and in dealing with thisaspect of the problem, the doctrine of benefit would applyand an inference of guilt can be drawn only if the provedfacts are inconsistent with the innocence of the accused andare consistent only with his guilt.	PREAMBLE
[113A-C	PREAMBLE
]       3.1	PREAMBLE
In the instant case, from the evidence it is clearthat there was no prior intimacy of the appellant and thedeceased.	PREAMBLE
They happened to meet per chance.	PREAMBLE
PW-7, the liquorshop owner, and PW-8, who hadliquor with the appellant and the deceased were also abso-lute strangers to the deceased and the appellant.	PREAMBLE
Admittedlythere was no identification parade conducted by the prosecu-tion to identify the appellant by PW-7 or PW-8.	PREAMBLE
The appel-	PREAMBLE
lant was stated to have pointed out to PW-7 as the one thatsold the liquor and PW-8 consumed it with him and the de-ceased.	PREAMBLE
Therefore, it is not reasonably possible to acceptthe testimony of the PW-7 and PW-8 when they professed thatthey had seen the appellant and the deceased together con-suming the liquor.	PREAMBLE
It is highly artificial and appear on itsface a make believe story.	PREAMBLE
[113F-	PREAMBLE
H]       3.2.1	PREAMBLE
An unambiguous extra-judicial confession possesseshigh probative value force as it emanates from the personwho committed the crime and is admissible in evidence pro-vided it is free from suspicion and suggestion of its falsi-ty.	PREAMBLE
But in the process of the proof of the alleged confes-	PREAMBLE
sion the court has to be satisfied that it is a voluntaryone and does not appear to be the result of inducement,threat or promise envisaged under s. 24 of the Evidence Actor was brought about in suspicious circumstances to circum-vent ss, 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act.	PREAMBLE
For this purpose thecourt must scrutinise all the relevant facts such as theperson to whom the confession is made, the time and place ofmaking it, the circumstances in which it was made and final-ly the actual words used by the accused.	PREAMBLE
[114A-D]       3.2.2 Section 25 of the Evidence Act provides that noconfession made to a police officer shall be proved asagainst a person accused of any offence.	PREAMBLE
Section 26 providesthat no confession made by any person while he is undercustody of the police officer, unless it be made in theimmediate presence of a magistrate, shall be proved asagainst such person.	PREAMBLE
[114G]       3.2.3	PREAMBLE
In the instant case, the appellant did not makeany confession in the presence of the magistrate.	PREAMBLE
From thenarrative of the prosecution story it is clear that PW 10	PREAMBLE
and the appellant did not belong to the same village andthat PW-27 and PW-10 came together and apprehended theappellant from his village and took him to village J for	PREAMBLE
identification	PREAMBLE
. After he was identified by PW-7 and PW-8 itwas stated that he was brought back to the village of PW-10and was kept in his company and PW-27 left for furtherinvestigation.	PREAMBLE
It is incredible to believe that the policeofficer, PW-27 after having got an accused identified wouldhave left without taking him into custody.	PREAMBLE
He seems to havecreated an artificial scenario of his leaving for furtherinvestigation and keeping the appellant in the custody ofPW-10 to make an extra-judicial confession, with a view toavoid the rigour of ss. 25 and26.	PREAMBLE
Nothing prevented him from taking the appellant to aJudicial Magistrate and having his confession recorded asprovided under s. 164 of the Crl. P.C. which possesses greatprobative value and affords an unerring assurance to thecourt.	PREAMBLE
It is too incredulous to believe that for mere askingto tell the truth the appellant made voluntary confession toPW-10 and that too sitting in a hotel. The other person inwhose presence it was stated to have been made was notexamined to provide any corroboration to the testimony ofPW-10.	PREAMBLE
It would be legitimate, therefore, to conclude thatthe appellant was taken into police custody and the extra-judicial confession was obtained there through PW-10 whoaccommodated the prosecution.	PREAMBLE
[115A-E]       3.2.4	PREAMBLE
It is well settled law that ss. 25 and 26 of theEvidence Act shall be construed strictly.	PREAMBLE
Therefore, byoperation of s. 26 the confession made by the appellant toPW-10 while he was in the custody of the police officershall not be proved against him.	PREAMBLE
[115E]       3.3	PREAMBLE
The statement said to have been made by the appel-lant under s 27 of the Evidence Act leading to discovery ofthe consequential information, namely. saw blade, is not ofa conclusive nature connecting the appellant with the crime.	PREAMBLE
The recoveries were made long after the arrest of the appel-lant.	PREAMBLE
The blood stains on all the articles had disintegrat-ed.	PREAMBLE
So it was not possible to find whether it was humanblood or not.	PREAMBLE
Moreover, from the prosecution evidence it isclear that the deceased himself was an accused in an earliermurder case and it is obvious that he had enemies at hisback.	PREAMBLE
Absolutely no motive to commit the crime was attribut-ed to the appellant.	PREAMBLE
[115G-H]       4.	PREAMBLE
The conviction and sentence of the appellant for theoffences under ss. 302 and 201 IPC are set aside.	PREAMBLE
The bailbond shall stand cancelled.	PREAMBLE
He shall remain at libertyunless he is required in any other case.	PREAMBLE
[116D]       5. Indulging in free fabrication of evidence against aninnocent and implicating him in the capital offence punisha-ble under s. 302 IPC, as in the instant case, is a deplora-ble conduct on the part of an investigating officer.	PREAMBLE
Theliberty of a citizen is a precious one guaranteed by consti-tutional provisions and its deprivation shall be only inaccordance with law.	PREAMBLE
Before accusing the appellant of thecommission of such a grave crime an honest, sincere anddispassionate investigation should have been made to feelsure that he alone was responsible to commit the offence.[117B; A]	PREAMBLE
JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE
       CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 386 of 1978.	NONE
From the Judgment and Order dated 19/20th July, 1977 of the Himachal Pradesh High Court in Crl. A. No. 46 of 1976.	NONE
       Rakesh Luthra, N.N. Bhatt, L.R. Singh (N.P.) and lrshad Ahmad for the Appellant.	NONE
       K.G. Bhagat, N.K. Sharma and Ms. A. Subhashini (N.P.) for the Respondent.	NONE
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K. RAMASWAMY, J.	NONE
The appellant, K.C. Sharma, alongwith two others was charged for the offence punishable under ss.302 and 201 read with s. 34 of the Indian Penal Code for causing the death and concealing the dead body of Joginder Singh.	FAC
The Additional Sessions Judge, Kangra Division at Dharamsala convicted all the accused under s. 302/34 and directed them to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs.500 and also to the sentence of two years rigor- ous imprisonment and fine of Rs.500 for the offence of s.201/34, in default of payment of fine for a further period of three months rigorous imprisonment.	RLC
All the sentences were directed to run concurrently.	RLC
On appeal the Division Bench of the High Court of Himachal Pradesh by judgment dated July 20, 1977 acquitted accused 2 and 3 of the offence under s. 302 IPC and confirmed the conviction and sentence of the appellant and set aside the sentence of fine.	RLC
The leave having been granted by this Court, this appeal has been filed.	FAC
 The narrative of prosecution case runs thus: The de- ceased Joginder Singh, resident of Jogipura.	FAC
Tah. Kangra on November, 10, 1974.	FAC
while going to Pathankot with some currency notes in his possession went on his way to Jassur Village to meet his friend one Bala Pahalwan.	FAC
On enquiry the latter was said to be absent in the village.	FAC
The deceased came in contact with the appellant and both went to the Dhaba of PW. 7, Joginder Singh Paul to have some drink, but PW. 7 did not allow them to take liquor inside the Dhaba.	FAC
Both of them sat in the back side of the Dhaba to have drink.	FAC
PW. 8 Tamil Singh and one Jai Onkar were also invited to have drink with them.	FAC
All of them together consumed the liquor and ate meat.	FAC
The deceased paid the price of the liquor and meat and when he had become tipsy, PW. 8 suggest- ed to take the deceased to Pathankot or to keep him at DhabaBeli where at he could make necessary arrangements for their stay but the appellant insisted upon taking the deceased to Kangra.	FAC
Thereafter the appellant and the deceased boarded the Truck No. HPK 4179 driven by A. 2, Madho Ram, Driver and A. 3, Bihari Lal, Cleaner.	FAC
PW. 8 and the other left the place.	FAC
The truck was loaded with the bricks and the appel- lant and the deceased sat on the bricks in the body of the truck and went towards Kangra side.	FAC
PW. 12, the Octroi Clerk at Nagpur states that the truck driven by A. 2 went towards Baijnath.	FAC
PW. 13.	FAC
Burfiram, Chowkidar at Ichhi Marketing Co-op.	FAC
Society spoke that he saw the truck driven by A. 2 and A. 3 and got unloaded the bricks at the godown of the said Society at about mid-night but the deceased was not seen there.	FAC
It is further the case of the prosecution that while the deceased or accused were going in the truck, there ensued a quarrel between them over some money matter and the appellant took iron-screw driver and gave blows on the head and face of the deceased.	FAC
Consequently the deceased was half dead.	FAC
He was thrown out of the truck but finding him not dead put him in the truck and all the accused severed the head with an iron saw and burried the trunk under stones in the outskirts of the village Dhadhu and carried the head with them in the truck.	FAC
The head was hidden at a place between Guggal and Chaitru on the Kachcha road branching off the main road to the village Ichhi.	FAC
On November 13, 1974, PW. 6 Karrudi Ram, the Chowkidar of Mauza Bandi, during twilight, had gone to answer nature's call at the outskirts of the village Dhadhu and noticed the blood stains and a torn pant near the stones.	FAC
On further probe the hand of the deceased was seen projecting from the stones and he noticed the dead body.	FAC
He went and reported to Bidhu Ram, PW. 10.the Pradhan of the village and two others.	FAC
All of them went to the spot, noticed the dead body.	FAC
PW. 10 kept a watch during the night.	FAC
On November 14, 1974 at about 7.00 or 8.00 a.m. PW. 6 went to the Police Station and lodged the com- plaint.	FAC
PW. 26, the A,S.I. recorded and issued the First Information Report and proceeded to the spot.	FAC
He recovered the articles on and near the dead body under PW. 11, Panch- nama and conducted inquest and sent the dead body for post- mortem.	FAC
The Doctor conducted autopsy.	FAC
On November 15. 1974 the parents of the deceased came to the Police Station and identified the clothes of the deceased.	FAC
On November 16, 1974, PW. 27, the Sub Inspector of the Police took over the investigation.	FAC
He contacted one Kuldip Singh, a Conductor in Kapila Transport Company from whom he came to know that on November 10, 1974, the deceased and the appellant were seen consuming liquor at Jassur.	FAC
Thereafter PW. 27 and PW. 10, Bidhu Ram, Pradhan of Guggal Panchayat went to the appel- lant's village Sahaura and was sent for the appellant.	FAC
The appel-lant on coming to him was found to have shaved off his moustaches.	FAC
PW. 27 had enquired as to why he had removed his moustoches upon which the appellant was claimed to have replied that he had removed his moustaches due to demise of his maternal uncle.	FAC
PW. 10 and PW. 27 took the appellant to Jassur for identification purposes.	FAC
The appellant pointed out PW. 7, the owner of the Dhaba and the latter identified the appellant as one seen in the company of the deceased and having consumed liquor.	FAC
Equally of PW. 8.	FAC
Thereafter the appellant was taken back to PW. 10's village and PW. 27 left the village for further investigation.	FAC
On enquiry made by PW. 10, in the shop of one Mangath Ram and in the company of one Raghunath, to reveal the truth to him, the appellant was stated to have requested PW. 10 whether he could save him if he would tell the truth.	FAC
Thereupon PW. 10 stated that he could not save him but if he would speak the truth he would help himself.	FAC
Thereupon the appellant was stated to have made extra judicial confession giving out the details of consuming liquor with the deceased; their going together on the truck, the quarrel that ensued between them; his hitting the deceased with the screw-driver, throwing the..dead body, thinking that he died, on the road realising that he was not dead, lifting him and putting him in the body of the truck and all the accused cutting the head of the deceased with the saw blade and burrying the trunk under the stones and hiding the head at different place and thereby they had committed the crime.	FAC
PW. 10 gave this information to PW. 27 on the next day, namely, November 25, 1974.	FAC
Thereon all the accused were arrested.	FAC
On November 27, 1974, the Driver A. 2 was stated to have made a statement under s. 27 of the Evidence Act.	FAC
Ex. PW. 9/A leading to discovery of the hidden head at a place between Guggal and Chaitru.	FAC
This statement had been made in the presence of PW. 9 and another and the severed head was recovered under Memo Ex. PW. 9/B.	FAC
This was in the presence of PW. 10 and another.	FAC
The head was sent to the Doctor for post-mortem examination.	FAC
The Doctor verified and found it to be correct and the doctor corelated the trunk of the dead body and the head belonging to the de- ceased.	FAC
On November 30., 1974, pursuant to statement made by the appellant and A. 3 under Ex. PW. 16/B leading to recover one iron-saw without handle and a piece of cloth-wrapped to one of its sides was recovered from a bush near Kathman Mor and PW. 10 and another are Panch witnesses and found the saw blade contained with blood stains and a piece of cloth of torn pant.	FAC
They were recovered under Ex. PW. 16/C.	FAC
The clothes of the appellant were also claimed to have been recovered from his house under Ex. PW. 16/H which was stained with blood and the same were recovered in the presence of PW. 16	FAC
The Serologist found the blood stains disintegrated on all theitems.	FAC
On the basis of this evidence the prosecution laid the chargesheet against all the accused.	FAC
As stated earlier the appellant now stands convicted and sentenced for the offences under ss. 302 and 201, I.P.C.	FAC
The two others did not file appeal against their convict under s. 201 I.P.C.	FAC
The entire prosecution case rested on circumstantial evidence.	ANALYSIS
As regards the appellant, the circumstances relied on the prosecution are three, namely,(i) the appellant and the deceased were last seen together by PW. 7, the owner of the liquor shop Dhaba and PW. 8, the companion who had liquor with the deceased and the appellant; (ii) the extra judicial confession made to PW. 10, the Pradhan of Guggal Gram Panchayat; and (iii) the discovery of saw blade pursu- ant to the statement made by the appellant and A. 3 under s.27 of the Evidence Act.	ANALYSIS
 The question, therefore, is whether the prosecution proved guilt of the appellant beyond all reasonable doubt.	ISSUE
In a case of circumstantial evidence.	ANALYSIS
all the circumstances from which the conclusion of the guilt is to be drawn should be fully and cogently established.	ANALYSIS
All the facts so estab- lished should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.	ANALYSIS
The proved circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and definite tendency, unerringly point- ing towards the guilt of the accused.	ANALYSIS
They should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved.	ANALYSIS
The circumstances must be satisfactorily established and the proved circumstances must bring home the offences to the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.	ANALYSIS
It is not necessary that each circumstances by itself be conclusive but cumula- tively must form unbroken chain of events leading to the proof of the guilt of the accused.	ANALYSIS
If those circumstances or some of them can be explained by any of the reasonable hypothesis then the accused must have the benefit of that hypothesis.	ANALYSIS
 In assessing the evidence imaginary possibilities have no role to play.	ANALYSIS
What is to be considered are ordinary human probabilities.	ANALYSIS
In other words when there is no direct wit- ness to the commission of murder and the case rests entirely on circumstantial evidence, the circumstances relied on must be fully established.	ANALYSIS
The chain of events furnished by the circumstances should be so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for conclusion consistent with the inno- cence of the accused.	ANALYSIS
If any of the circumstances proved in a case are consistent with the innocence of the accused or the chain of the continuity of the circumstances is broken, the accused is entitled to the benefit of the doubt.	ANALYSIS
       In assessing the evidence to find these principles.	ANALYSIS
it is necessary to distinguish between facts which may be called primary or basic facts on one hand and inference of facts to be drawn from them.	ANALYSIS
on the other.	ANALYSIS
In regard to the proof of basic or primary facts.	ANALYSIS
the court has to judge the evidence in the ordinary way and in appreciation of the evidence in proof of those basic facts or primary facts, there is no scope for the application of the doctrine of benefit of doubt.	ANALYSIS
The court has to consider the evidence and decide whether the evidence proves a particular fact or not.	ANALYSIS
Whether that fact leads to the inference of the guilt of the accused or not is another aspect and in dealing with this aspect of the problem the doctrine of benefit would apply and an inference of guilt can be drawn only if the proved facts are inconsistent with the innocence of the accused and are consistent only with his guilt.	ANALYSIS
There is a long distance between may be true and must be true.	ANALYSIS
The prosecution has to travel all the way to establish fully the chain of events which should be consistent only with hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and those circumstances should be of conclu- sive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude all hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved by the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
In other words.	ANALYSIS
there must be a chain of evidence so far consistent and complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all probability the act must have been done by the accused and the accused alone.	ANALYSIS
 The question emerges, therefore is whether the prosecu- tion has established the three circumstantial evidence heavily banked upon by the prosecution in proof of the guilt of the appellant.	ANALYSIS
The first circumstance is that the de- ceased and the appellant were last seen together by PW. 7 and PW. 8.	ANALYSIS
From the evidence it is clear that there is no prior intimacy of the appellant and the deceased.	ANALYSIS
They happened to meet per chance.	ANALYSIS
Equally from the evidence it is clear that PW. 7, the liquor shop owner and PW. 8 who had liquor with the appellant and the deceased are also absolute strangers to the deceased and the appellant.	ANALYSIS
Admittedly there is no identification parade conducted by the prosecu- tion tO identify the appellant by PW. 7 or PW. 8.	ANALYSIS
The appel- lant was stated to have pointed out to PW. 7 as the one that sold the liquor and PW-8 consumed it with him and the de- ceased.	ANALYSIS
Therefore it is not reasonably possible to accept the testimony of PW. 7 and PW. 8 when they professed that they have seen the appellant and the deceased together consuming the liquor.	ANALYSIS
It is highly artificial and appears on its face a make believe story.	ANALYSIS
       The next piece of evidence is the alleged extra judicial confession made by the appellant to PW. 10.	ANALYSIS
An unambiguous extra judicial confession possesses high probative value force as it emanates from the person who committed the crime and is admissible in evidence provided it is free from suspicion and suggestion of its falsity.	ANALYSIS
But in the process of the proof of the alleged confession the court has to be satisfied that it is a voluntary one and does not appear to be the result of inducement, threat or promise envisaged under section 24 of the Evidence Act or was brought about in suspicious circumstances to circumvent Section 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, the court has to look into the surrounding circumstances and to find whether the extra judicial confession is not inspired by any improper or colateral consideration or circumvention of the law suggest- ing that it may not be true one.	ANALYSIS
For this purpose the court must scrutinise all the relevant facts such as the person to whom the confession is made, the time and place of making it, the circumstances in which it was made and finally the actual words used by the accused.	ANALYSIS
Extra judicial confession if found to be voluntary, can be relied upon by the court alongwith other evidence on record.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, even the extra judicial confession will also have to be proved like any other fact.	ANALYSIS
The value of the evidence as to the confes- sion depends upon the verocity of the witness to whom it is made and the circumstances in which it came to be made and the actual words used by the accused.	ANALYSIS
Some times it may not be possible to the witness to reproduce the actual words in which the confession was made.	ANALYSIS
For that reason the law insists on recording the statement by a Judicial Magistrate after administering all necessary warnings to the accused that it would be used as evidence against him.	ANALYSIS
 Admittedly PW. 10 and the appellant do not belong to the same village.	ANALYSIS
From the narrative of the prosecution story it is clear that PW. 27, and PW. 10 came together and appre- hended the appellant from his village and was taken to Jassur for identification.	ANALYSIS
After he was identified by PW. 7 and PW. 8 it was stated that he was brought back to Gaggal village of PW. 10 and was kept in his company and PW. 27 left for further investigation.	ANALYSIS
Section 25 of the Evidence Act provides that no confession made to a police officer shall be proved as against a person accused of any offence.	STA
Section 26 provides that no confession made by any person while he is under custody of the police officer, unless it be made in the immediate presence of a magistrate, shall be proved as against such person.	STA
Therefore, the confession made by an accused person to a police officer is irrelevant by operation of Section 25 and it shall be proved against the appellant.	ANALYSIS
Likewise the confession made by the appellant while he is in the custody of the police shall notbe proved against the appellant unless it is made in the immediate presence of the magistrate, by operation of Sec- tion 26 thereof.	ANALYSIS
Admittedly the appellant did not make any confession in the presence of the magistrate.	ANALYSIS
The question, therefore, is whether the appellant made the extra judicial confession while he was in the police custody.	ANALYSIS
It is incred- ible to believe that the police officer, PW. 27, after having got identified the appellant by PW. 7 and PW. 8 as the one last seen the deceased in his company would have left the appellant without taking him into custody.	ANALYSIS
It is obvious, that with a view to avoid the rigour of Section 25 and 26, PW. 27 created an artificial scenerio of his leaving for further investigation and kept the appellant in the custody of PW. 10, the Pradhan to make an extra judicial confession.	ANALYSIS
Nothing prevented PW. 27 to take the appellant to a Judicial Magistrate and had his confession recorded as provided under section 164 of the Crl. P.C. which possesses great probative value and affords an unerring assurance to the court.	ANALYSIS
It is too incredulous to believe that for mere asking to tell the truth the appellant made voluntarily confession to PW. 10 and that too sitting in a hotel.	ANALYSIS
The other person in whose presence it was stated to have been made was not examined to provide any corroboration to the testimony of PW. 10.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, it would be legitimate to conclude that the appellant was taken into the police custo- dy and while the accused was in the custody, the extra judicial confession was obtained through PW. 10 who accommo- dated the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
Thereby we can safely reach an irre- sistible conclusion that the alleged extra judicial confes- sion statement was made while the appellant was in the police custody.	ANALYSIS
It is well settled law that Sections 25 and 26 shall be construed strictly.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, by operation of Section 26 of the Evidence Act, the confession made by the appellant to PW. 10 while he was in the custody of the police officer (PW. 27) shall not be proved against the appellant.	ANALYSIS
In this view it is unnecessary to go into the voluntary nature of the confession etc. 	ANALYSIS
The third circumstance relied on is the statement said to have been made by the appellant under section 27 of the Evidence Act leading to discovery of the consequential information, namely, saw blade, is not of a conclusive nature connecting the appellant with the crime.	ANALYSIS
The recover- ies were long after the arrest of the appellant.	ANALYSIS
The blood stains on all the articles were disintegrated.	ANALYSIS
So it was not possible to find whether it is human blood or not.	ANALYSIS
Moreover, from the prosecution evidence it is clear that the deceased himself was an accused in an earlier murder case and it is obvious that he had enemies at his back.	ANALYSIS
Absolutely no motive to commit crime was attributed to the appellant.	ANALYSIS
       No doubt the appellant and two others have been charged for an offence under section 302 and 201 read with Section 34, namely, common intention to commit the offences and A. 2 and A. 3 were acquitted of the charge under section 302/34, I.P.C. and that there is no independent charge under section 302, I.P.C.	ANALYSIS
If, from the evidence, it is established that any one of the accused have committed the crime individual- ly, though the other accused were acquitted, even without any independent charge under section 302, the individual accused would be convicted under section 302, I.P.C. sim- plicitor.	ANALYSIS
The omission to frame an independent charge under section 302, I.P.C. does not vitiate the conviction and sentence under section 302, I.P.C. 	ANALYSIS
Thus considered we find that the prosecution has utterly failed to prove any one of the three circumstances against the appellant and the chain of circumstances was broken at every stage without connecting the accused to the commission of the alleged crime as the prosecution failed to prove as a primary fact all the three circumstances, much less beyond all reasonable doubt bringing home the guilt to the accused, and to prove that the accused alone had committed the crime.	RATIO
Therefore, the appellant is entitled to the benefit of doubt.	RPC
The conviction and sentence of the appellant for the offences under section 302 or Section 201 of I.P.C. are set aside.	RPC
The appellant is on bail granted by this Court after nine years' incarceration.	RPC
The bail bond shall stand can- celled.	RPC
He shall remain at liberty unless he is required in any other case.	RPC
 Before parting with the case, it is necessary to state that from the facts and circumstances of this case it would appear that the investigating officer has taken the appel- lant, a peon, the driver and the cleaner for ride and tram- pled upon their fundamental personal liberty and lugged them in the capital offence punishable under section 302. I.P.C. by freely fabricating evidence against the innocent.	ANALYSIS
Un- doubtedly.	ANALYSIS
heinous crimes are committed under great secrecy and that investigation of a crime is a difficult and tedious task.	ANALYSIS
At the same time the liberty of a citizen is a pre- cious one guaranteed by Art. 3 of Universal Declaration of Human Rights and also Art. 21 of the Constitution of India and its deprivation shall be only in accordance with law.	ANALYSIS
 The accused has the fundamental right to defend himself under Art. 10 of Universal Declaration of Human Rights.	ANALYSIS
The right to defence includes right to effective and meaningful defence at the trial.	ANALYSIS
The poor accused cannot defend effec- tively and adequately.	ANALYSIS
Assigning an experienced defence counsel to an indigent accused is a facet of fair procedure and an inbuilt right to liberty and life envisaged under Arts. 19 and 21 of the Constitution.	ANALYSIS
Weaker the person accused of an offence, greater the caution and higher the responsi- bility of the law enforcement agencies.	ANALYSIS
Before accusing an innocent person of the commission of a grave crime like the one punishable under section 302, I.P.C., an honest, sincere and dispassionate investigation has to be made and to feel sure that the person suspected of the crime alone was re- sponsible to commit the offence.	ANALYSIS
Indulging in free fabrica- tion of the record is a deplorable conduct on the part of an investigating officer which under-mines the public confi- dence reposed in the investigating agency.	ANALYSIS
Therefore, great- er care and circumspection are needed by the investigating agency in this regard.	ANALYSIS
It is time that the investigating agencies, evolve new and scientific investigating methods, taking aid of rapid scientific development in the field of investigation.	ANALYSIS
It is also the duty of the State, i.e. Cen- tral or State Government to organise periodical refresher courses for the investigating officers to keep them abreast of the latest scientific development in the art of investi- gation and the march of law so that the real offender would be brought to book and the innocent would not be exposed to prosecution.	ANALYSIS
 Though Art. 39A of the Constitution provides fundamental rights to equal justice and free legal aid and though the State provides amicus curiae to defend the indigent accused, he would be meted out with unequal defence if, as is common knowledge the youngster from the Bar who has either a little experience or no experience is assigned to defend him.	ANALYSIS
It is high time that senior counsel practicing in the court con- cerned, volunteer to defend such indigent accused as a part of their professional duty.	ANALYSIS
If these remedial steps are taken and an honest and objective investigation is done, it will enhance a sense of confidence of the public in the investigating agency.	ANALYSIS
 We fervently hope and trust that concerned authorities and Senior Advocates would take appropriate steps in this regard. 	ANALYSIS
The appeal is accordingly allowed.	RPC
 P.S.S.	RPC
                             Appeal allowed.	RPC
