IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BANGALORE      DATED THIS THE 20TH DAY OF JUNE 2012                         BEFORE	PREAMBLE
          THE HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE B.S.PATIL          W.P.Nos.19139-174/2012 (T-RES)	PREAMBLE
BETWEEN:M/s.	PREAMBLE
Transglobal Power Limited	PREAMBLE
... PETITIONERNo.364/365, 9th Main, J.P.Nagar,4th Phase, Dollars Colony,Bangalore  560 078.Represented by itsManaging DirectorSri. Manjunath Dasappa,S/o. Sri. Dasappa,Aged about 44 years.(By Smt. Vani. H. Adv.)AND:1. The Joint Commissioner of Commercial Taxes    VAT Division-1, Vanijya Therige Karyalaya-1,    Gandhi Nagar,    Bangalore  560009.2.	PREAMBLE
The State of Karnataka                  ... RESPONDENTS	PREAMBLE
    Ministry of Finance,    Represented by its Finance Secretary,    Vidhana Soudha,	PREAMBLE
    Ambedkar Veedhi,	PREAMBLE
    Bangalore.	PREAMBLE
(By Sri. T.K.Vedamurthy, HCGP)	PREAMBLE
         These writ petitions are filed under Articles 226 of theConstitution of India, praying to issue a writ of certiorari or awrit in the nature of certiorari quashing the order bearingNo.JCCT.DVO-1/SMR/CR-8/2011-12-T No.1686/11-12 dated28.03.2012 vide Annexure-B.         These petitions coming on for preliminary hearing-Bgroup this day, the Court made the following:                                         ORDER	PREAMBLE
1. Learned High Court Government Pleader is directed to take notice for the respondents.	NONE
2. Heard the learned counsel for the parties. 3.	NONE
The challenge in these writ petitions is to the order dated 28.03.2012 passed by the 1st respondent-Joint Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, VAT Division-1, Bangalore, under Section 63-A of the Karnataka Value Added Tax Act, 2003 (for short `the Act') read with Section 9(2) of Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.	FAC
 4. The only ground on which the challenge made to the impugned order is sought to be sustained by the petitioner is with regard to the lack of territorial jurisdiction in the Joint Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, VAT Division-1, Bangalore to deal with the matter.	FAC
 5. Learned counsel for the petitioner placing reliance on the order passed by the Commissioner for Commercial Taxes, Bangalore on 19.09.2011 produced at Annexure-E and the Annexures enclosed to it submits that the place where the petitioner carried on his business fell within the jurisdiction of Joint Commissioner for Commercial Taxes (Administration), Division-3, Bangalore and not within the jurisdiction of the 1st respondent herein.	ARG_PETITIONER
 6. As is apparent from the order dated 19.09.2011 and the allocation of work made pursuant thereon which is clear from the chart appended to the order, the present place of business of the petitioner falls within the territorial jurisdiction of the Joint Commissioner for Commercial Taxes(Administration), Division-3, Bangalroe and not within the territorial jurisdiction of the Joint Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Division-1, Bangalore.	ANALYSIS
However, it is rightly contended by the learned High Court Government Pleader that the notice issued under Section 63-A of the Act to the petitioner on 04.07.2011 was addressed to the place of business of the petitioner at No.343, I Floor, Narayana Pillai Street, Commercial Street, Bangalore-560001 and the same has been received by the petitioner at the same address on 06.07.2011, as is apparent from the endorsement made on the notice.	ANALYSIS
Copy of the same is part of the record that is produced for perusal of the Court by the learned High Court Government Pleader.	ANALYSIS
It is thus clear that at the time when the notice was served on the petitioner, without raising any objection with regard to the address, the notice has been received at the same address and subsequently even when the reply to the notice was submitted on 12.12.2011 the petitioner has not raised any objection with regard to the territorial jurisdiction of the 1st respondent to exercise his power and jurisdiction in the matter.	ANALYSIS
It is in this background the 1st respondent has proceeded to pass the order.	ANALYSIS
For the first time, the petitioner intends to raise the question on territorial jurisdiction by filing these writ petitions challenging the order passed by the 1st respondent.	ANALYSIS
 7. Section 67 of the Act states that "no objection as to the territorial or pecuniary jurisdiction of any prescribed authority shall be entertained or allowed by any Court, Tribunal or Authority in an appeal or revision, unless such objection was taken before the prescribed authority at the earliest possible opportunity". 8.	STA
Therefore, there is a clear bar enacted under Section 67 of the Act for the petitioner to raise objection to the territorial jurisdiction of the 1st respondent.	ANALYSIS
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the bar under Section 67 is for the Appellant or Revisional Court and not for this Court in writ jurisdiction and therefore the petitioner is entitled to raise this ground in the writ petition.	ARG_PETITIONER
This contention cannot be accepted.	ANALYSIS
 9. This Court, in its writ jurisdiction comes to the aid of the petitioner when there is an apparent illegality committed and when there is error of jurisdiction resulting in failure of justice.	ANALYSIS
In the instant case, the legislative intent is very clear that when an assessee does not raise any objection to the territorial jurisdiction and allows the authority to pass an order, then such an objection cannot be raised by it subsequently.	ANALYSIS
 10. Reliance is placed by the learned counsel for the petitioner on the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of DEEPAK AGRO FOODS vs. STATE OF RAJASTHAN AND OTHERS - (2008) 16 VST 454.	PRE_NOT_RELIED
On perusal of the ratio laid down in the judgment and the facts involved therein the same does not in any manner help the petitioner to sustain the contention urged in these writ petitions.	ANALYSIS
Neither the facts nor the law laid down therein is applicable to the instant case.	ANALYSIS
In fact, as is clear from the observations made in the said order "all irregular or erroneous or even illegal orders cannot be held to be null and void, as there is a fine distinction between orders which are null and void and orders which are irregular, wrong or illegal.	ANALYSIS
This is not a case of inherent lack of jurisdiction.	ANALYSIS
If that is so, then the legislature would not have enacted Section 67 making it clear that lack of territorial jurisdiction cannot be raised by an assessee having suffered an order without raising the objection at the initial stage.	ANALYSIS
 11. Similarly, the judgment of the Division Bench of Kerala High Court in the case of T.P.FINIMOLE vs. ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER (AA), COMMERCIAL TAXES AND ANOTHER  (2009) 24 VST 385 is also not apposite to the facts of the present case.	PRE_NOT_RELIED
The law laid down therein has no application to the question raised in the instant case.	PRE_NOT_RELIED
 12. It is further contended by the learned counsel for the petitioner that in the reply submitted the petitioner it has furnished the changed address at J.P.Nagar and therefore the 1st respondent ought to have taken care to notice that he lacked territorial jurisdiction to proceed in the matter.	ARG_PETITIONER
This contention cannot be accepted in the light of the provision contained under Section 67 of the Act.	RATIO
It was for the petitioner to raise an objection in that regard.	RATIO
Having not raised such an objection and in the wake of the fact that at the time when the proceedings were initiated and when the notice was served, the petitioner was residing in the address at Commercial Street which fell within the jurisdiction of the 1st respondent, the contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner cannot be accepted.	RATIO
In my considered view, the petitioner cannot nullify the effect of the legislative intent expression in Section 67 by invoking the writ jurisdiction, in the absence of any material to show that the same has resulted in miscarriage of justice.	ANALYSIS
Writ petitions are accordingly dismissed.	RPC
 Learned High Court Government Pleader is permitted to file memo of appearance within three weeks.	RPC
 Sd/- JUDGE VP	NONE
