PETITIONER:SONI DEVRAJBHAI BABUBHAIVs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF GUJARAT AND ORS.DATE OF JUDGMENT28/08/1991BENCH:VERMA, JAGDISH SARAN (J)BENCH:VERMA, JAGDISH SARAN (J)SHARMA, L.M. (J)CITATION:                  1991 SCR (3) 812 1991 AIR 2173             JT 1991 (3) 542 1991 SCC (4) 298 1991 SCALE (2)410ACT:Indian Penal Code, 1860: Section 304-B (As inserted by Act43 of 1986)--Scope and object of--Dowry death-Death occuringprior to insertion of Section 304-B Section 304-B heldprospective and consequently inapplicable--It contains asubstantive provision creating a new offence and, does not	PREAMBLE
merely effect a procedural change for trial of pre-existingsubstantive offence.	PREAMBLE
       Indian Evidence Act, 1872: Section 113-B.	PREAMBLE
Presumption asto dowry death--Section 113-B contains rule of evidence toprove the offence of dowry death.	PREAMBLE
Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961: Purpose of.	PREAMBLE
Constitution of India, 1950: Article 20(1) Protectionagainst conviction for a new offence created subsequent tothe commission of offence.	PREAMBLE
HEADNOTE:       Appellant's daughter was married to respondent No. 2 on15.12.1984.	PREAMBLE
She died on 13.8.1986.	PREAMBLE
The appellant filed acriminal comp-. laint against the respondents viz. daugh-ter's husband and his relatives for an offence under section498-A, triable by a Magistrate of First Class, 'read withsection 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 alleging that hisdaughter's death was unnatural resulting from torture by herhusband and his relatives.	PREAMBLE
By Act No. 43 of 1986, the IndianPenal Code was amended and Section 304-B, offence of dowrydeath, was inserted in the Code w.e.f. 19.11.1986.	PREAMBLE
Since thenewly inserted offence of dowry death was triable.	PREAMBLE
by aCourt of Session, the appellant flied an application beforethe Magistrate for committing the case to the Caurt-ofSession for trial of offence under section 304-B.	PREAMBLE
'TheMagistrate dismissed his application by holding that theamendment being prospective was inapplicable'to the casebecause the death had occurred prior to the amendment.Thereafter the appellant filed an application in the HighCourt for a direction to Commit the case of dowry death tothe Court of Session.	PREAMBLE
The High Court also dismissed hisapplication by holding that since the offence was committedprior to the date of insertion of section304-B, the section was not applicable to the case.	PREAMBLE
In appealto this Court on the question whether section 304-B of theIndian Penal Code was applicable to a case of dowry deathwhere the death has occurred prior to the insertion ofSection 304-B, it was contended on behalf of the appellantthat section 304-B of the Indian Penal Code does not createa new offence and contains merely a rule of evidence.	PREAMBLE
Dismissing the appeal, this Court,       HELD: 1.	PREAMBLE
The offence of dowry death punishable undersection 304-B of the Indian Penal Code is a new offenceinserted in the code with effect from .19.11.1986 when ActNo. 43 of 1986 came into force The said offence is punisha-ble with a minimum sentence of seven years which may extendto life imprisonment and is triable by Court of Session.	PREAMBLE
Thecorresponding amendments made by Act No. 43 of 1986 in theCode of Criminal Procedure and the Indian Evidence Actrelate to the trial and proof of the offence.	PREAMBLE
Section 498-Ainserted in the Indian Penal Code by the Criminal Law	PREAMBLE
(Second Amendment) Act, 1983	PREAMBLE
is an offence triable by aMagistrate of the First Class and is punishable with impris-onment for a term which may extend to three years in addi-tion to fine.	PREAMBLE
The offence of dowry death punishable undersection 304-B provides for a more stringent offence thansection 498-A. Section 304-is a substantive provision creat-ing a new offence and not merely a provision effecting achange in procedure for trial of a pre-existing substanativeoffence.	PREAMBLE
The rule of evidence to prove the offence of dowrydeath is contained in section 113-B of the Indian EvidenceAct providing for presumption as to dowry death which was asimultaneous amendment made in the Indian Evidence Act forproving 'the offence of dowery death.	PREAMBLE
The fact that theIndian Evidence Act was so amended simul taneously with theinsertion of section 304-B in the Indian Penal code by thesame Amendment Act is another pointer in this direction.	PREAMBLE
There fore, it cannot be held that section 304-B. does notcreate a new offence and contains merely a rule of evidence.	PREAMBLE
[818D-F, 819C-D]2.	PREAMBLE
The respondents are being tried in the Court of Magis-trate of .the First Class for the offence punishable undersection 498-A which was in the statute book on the date ofdeath of Appellant's daughter Their trial and punishment forthe offence of dowry death provided in section 304-B of theIndian Penal Code 'with the minimum sentence of seven years'imprisonment for an act done by them prior to creation ofthe new offence of dowry death would clearly deny to themthe protection afforded by clause (1) of Article 20 of theConstitution.	PREAMBLE
Accord ingly, the view taken by the High Courtthat the respondents cannot betried and punished for the offence provided in section 304-Bof the Indian Penal Code which is a new offence createdsubsequent to the commission of the offence attributed tothe respondents does not suffer from any infirmity.	PREAMBLE
[818E,G, 819E]JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE
       CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 533of 1991.	NONE
From the Judgment and Order dated 10.1. 1989 of the Gujarat High Court in Miscellaneous Criminal Application No.32 of 1989.	NONE
H.S. Zaveri for the Appellant.	NONE
 Dushayant Dave, Ashish Verma and Anip Sachthey	NONE
. for the Respondents.	NONE
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VERMA, J. Petitioner's daughter Chhaya Was married to Respondent No. 2 Satish on5. 12. 1984 and they started living together in their marital home at Bagasara.	FAC
On 13.8.1986, Chhaya died at Bagasara.	FAC
The petitioner and his wife got some vague information about their daughter Chhaya and went to Bagasara, the same day but were unable to meet or see their daughter who had died.	FAC
The petitioner suspected that their daughter's death was unnatural resulting from torture by her husband and his relatives.	FAC
The petitioner filed a criminal complaint against Respondent Nos. 2 to 5, who are the husband, his parents and sister which was trans- ferred to the Court of.	FAC
Judicial Magistrate First Class at Dhari and registered as Criminal Case No. 382 of 1988 for an offence under section 498-A read with section 34 I.P.C.	FAC
The petitioner filed an application for committing the case to the Court of Session for trial for .an offencepunishable under section 304-B I.P.C. which was inserted in the Indian Penal Code by Act No. 43 of 1986 w.e.f. 19.11.1986.	FAC
On 29.11.1988, the Learned Magistrate dismissed the petition- er's application holding that this amendment being prospec- tive was inapplicable to a death which occurred on 13.8.1986, prior to the amendment.	FAC
Aggrieved by this order, the petitioner moved an application (Misc. Criminal Applica- tion No. 32 of 1989) in the High Court of Gujarat .for a direction to commit this case of dowry death to 'the Court of Session since an 'offence punish-able under section 304-B is triable by the Court of Session.'	FAC
By the impugned order dated January 10, 1989, the High Court has dismissed that application.	FAC
Hence this special leave petition.	FAC
Leave is granted.	FAC
 The point arising for our decision is the applicability of section 304-B of the Indian Penal Code to the present case where the death alleged to be a dowry death occurred prior to insertion of section 304-B in the Indian Penal Code.	ISSUE
This is the only ground on which the. appellant claims trial of the case in the Court of Session. ..	ANALYSIS
The reason.given by the High Court to support its view is that the offence was committed prior to the date of insertion of section 304-B in the Indian Penal Code on account of which the section can have no application to the present case.	ANALYSIS
None of the courts below. has examined the applicability .of any other pre-existing more stringent provision even if section 304-B does not apply.	ANALYSIS
As such affirmation of the view that section 304-B does not apply, will not preclude the appellant from contending that any other more stringent provision is attracted on the accusa- tion made.	ANALYSIS
If that point is raised, the courts below will have to decide the same on merits on the basis of accusation made.	ANALYSIS
It is in this background that the point raised by the appellant regarding applicability of section 304-B is decid- ed by us.. . Section 304-B and the cognate provisions are meant for eradication of the social evil of dowry which has been the bane of Indian society 'and continues unabated in spite of emanicipation of women and the women's liberation movement.	ANALYSIS
This all prevading malady in our society has only a few lucky exception in spite of equal treatment and opportunity to boys and girls for education and career.	ANALYSIS
Society contin- ues to perpetuate the difference between them for the pur- pose of marriage and it is this distinction which makes the dowry system thrive.	ANALYSIS
Even though for eradication of this social evil, effective steps can be taken by the society itself and the social sanctions of the community can be more deterrent, yet legal sanctions in the form of its .prohibi- tion and punishment are some steps in that direction.	ANALYSIS
The Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 was enacted for this purpsoe.	ANALYSIS
The Report of the Joint Committee of Parliament quoted the observations of Jawaharlal Nehru to indicate the role of legislation in dealing with the social evil as under: " Legislation .cannot by itself normally solve deep-rooted social problems, One has to ap- proach them in other ways too, but legislation is necessary and essential, so that it may give that push and have that educative factor as well as the legal sanctions behind it which help public opinion to be given a certain shape."         The enactment of Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 in its original form was found inadequate.	ANALYSIS
Experience shows that the demand of dowry and the mode of its recovery takes different forms to achieve the same result and various indirect and sophisticated methods are being used to 'avoid leaving any evidence of the offence.	ANALYSIS
Similarly, the conse- quences of non-fulfilment of the demand of dowry meted out to the unfortunate bride takes different forms to avoid any apparent causal connection between the demand of dowry and its prejudicial effect on the bride.	ANALYSIS
This experience has led to several other legislative measures in the continuing battle to combat this evil.	ANALYSIS
       The Criminal Law (Second Amendment) Act, 1983 (No. 45 of 1983) was an act further to amend the Indian Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.	ANALYSIS
Section 498-A was inserted in the Indian Penal Code and corresponding amendments were made in the Code of Criminal Procedure which included section 198A .therein and also inserted section 113A in the Indian Evidence Act,.1872.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter, the Dowry Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1986 (No. 43 of 1986) was enacted further to amend the Dowry Prohibition .Act, 1961 and to make certain .necessary changes in the Indian Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.	ANALYSIS
       Two of the salient features of the Dowry Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1986 (No. 43 of 1986) stated in the State- ment of Objects and Reasons of the Bill are as under: "(e) Offences under the Act are proposed to be made non-bailable.	STA
 "(g) A new offence of "dowry death"                         is proposed to be included in the Indian Penal Code and the necessary consequential amend- ments in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 have also been proposed."	STA
Accordingly by section 7 of the Amendment Act, section 8 of the Dowry' Prohibition' Act, 1961 was amended to make every Offence under this Act non-bailable while continuing it to be non-compoundable.	ANALYSIS
By sections 10, 11 and 12, amendments were made in the Indian Penal Code, Code of Criminal Proce- dure, 1973 and the Indian' Evidence Act, 1872, as part of the same scheme as follows: "10.	STA
In the Indian Penal Code, after, section 304-A, the following section shall be inserted, namely: '304-B. Dowry death.	STA
(1) Where the death of a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise then under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage and it is shown that .soon before her death she was subjected to cruelty or harass- ment by her husband or any relative of her husband for, Or in connection with, any demand for dowry such death shall be called "dowry death", and such husband or relative shall be deemed to have caused her death.	STA
 Explanation-For the purposes of this sub-section, ,'dowry". shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of the Dowry Prohibi- tion Act, 196 1 (28 of 1961).	STA
 (2) Whoever commits dowry death shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to imprisonment for "11.	STA
In the Code of Criminal Proce- dure, 1973, in the First Schedule after the entries relating to section 304-A, the follow- ing entries shall be inserted, namely: Section Offence Punishment COgnizable Bailable or By what or non-  non-bail-  Court	STA
cognizable able     tribale "304-B ' Dowry Imprison- Ditto Non-      Court of death ment of not             bailable ' Session." lesS' than seven years but which may extend to imprisonment for life.	STA
 ' "12.	STA
In the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, after section 113-A, the following section shall be insert- ed, namely:- "11.3-B. Presumption as to dowry death.-When the question is whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her 'death.	STA
such woman has been subjected by such .person to cruelty Or harassment for, or in connecting with, any demand for dowry, the Court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.	STA
 Explanation.-For the purpose of this section', "dowry death" shall have the same meaning as in section 304-B of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860)." 	STA
It is clear from the above historical background that the offence of dowry death punishable under section 304-B of the Indian Penal Code is a new offence inserted in the Indian Penal Code with effect from 19.11.1986 when Act No. 43 of 1986 came into force.	ANALYSIS
The offence under section 304-B is punishable with a minimum sentence of seven years which may extend to life imprisonment and is triable by Court of Session.	ANALYSIS
The corresponding amendments made in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Indian Evidence Act relate to the trial and proof of the offence.	ANALYSIS
Section 498;A inserted in the Indian Penal Code by the Criminal Law (Second Amendment)Act, 1983 (Act No. 46 of 1983) is an offence triable by a Magistrate of the First Class and is punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years in addition to fine.	ANALYSIS
It is for the offence punishable under section 498-A which was in the statute book on the date of death of Chhaya that the respondents are being tried in the Court of Magistrate of the First Class.	ANALYSIS
The offence punisha- ble under section 304-B, known as. dowry death, was a new offence created with effect .from 19.11.1986 by insertion of the provision in the Indian Penal Code providing for a more stringent offence' than section 498-A.	ANALYSIS
Section 304-B is a substantive provision creating a new offence and not merely a provision effecting a, change in procedure for trial of a pre-existing substantive offence.	ANALYSIS
Acceptance of the appel- lant's contention would amount to holding that the respond- ents can be tried and punished for the offence of dowry death provided in section 304-B of the Indian Penal Code with the minimum sentence of seven years' imprisonment for an act done by them prior to creation of the new offence of dowry death.	ANALYSIS
In our opinion, this would clearly deny to them the protection afforded by clause (1) of Article 20 of the Constitution which reads as under: "20.. Protection in respect of con- viction for offences.	STA
--(1) No person shall be convicted of any offence except for violation of the law in force at the time of the commis- sion of the act charged as an offence, 'nor be subjected to a penalty greater than that which might have been inflicted under the law in force at the time of the commission of the offence. ' '	STA
" In our opinion ,. the protection given by Article 20(1) is a complete answer to the appellant's contention.	STA
 The contention 'of learned counsel 'for the appellant that section 304-B inserted in the Indian Penal Code does not create a new offence and' contains merely a rule of evidence is untenable.	ANALYSIS
The rule of evidence to prove the offence of dowry death is contained in section 113-B of the Indian Evidence Act providing for presumption as to dowry death which was a simultaneous' amendment made in the Indian Evidence Act for proving the offence of dowry death.	ANALYSIS
The fact that the Indian Evidence Act was so amended simultane- ously with the insertion of section 304-B in the Indian Penal' Code by the same Amendment Act is' another pointer in this direction.	ANALYSIS
This contention is, therefore, rejected.	ANALYSIS
In follows that the view taken by the High Court that the respondents cannot be tried and punished for the offence provided in section 304-B of the Indian Penal Code which is a new offence created subsequent 'to the commission of the offence attributed to the respondents does not suffer from any infirmity.	RATIO
However, as earlier indicated, in case the accusation against the respondents discloses commission of any other more stringent pre-existing offence by the re- spondents than section 498-A of the Indian Penal Code, the appellant would be entitled to raise that question and the Court will then consider and decide it on that basis.	ANALYSIS
No such argument having been advanced before us or any of the courts below so far, the same does not arise for considera- tion in the present proceeding.	RATIO
With these observations, the appeal is dismissed.	RPC
 T.N.A.	NONE
                             Appeal dis- missed.	RPC
