IN THE COURT OF THE II ADDL.SENIOR CIVIL             JUDGE AND C.J.M., MYSURU	PREAMBLE
                                     PRESENTSRI SANTHOSH KUMAR SHETTY N., B.Com., LL.M.,                 II Addl.	PREAMBLE
Senior Civil Judge & CJM,                                Mysuru.	PREAMBLE
DATED THIS THE 31st DAY OF OCTOBER 2019                 O.S. No.785/2014PLAINTIFF/S  ::             1. Smt. Ningamma,                 W/o.	PREAMBLE
Late Moganna,                 	PREAMBLE
Aged about 60 years,             2. M. Mahesha,                 S/o.	PREAMBLE
Late Moganna,                 	PREAMBLE
Aged about 43 years,             2(a) Smt. Latha,                   W/o.	PREAMBLE
Late Mahesha,                   Aged about 36 years,	PREAMBLE
2(b) Kum.	PREAMBLE
Pooja,	PREAMBLE
D/o. Late Mahesha,                   Aged about 21 years,	PREAMBLE
2(c) Kum.	PREAMBLE
Thejashwini,                   D	PREAMBLE
/o. Late Mahesha,                   Aged about 19 years,	PREAMBLE
3. Venkatesha,                 S/o.	PREAMBLE
Late Moganna,                 Aged about 40 years,	PREAMBLE
4. M. Manjunatha,                  S/	PREAMBLE
o. Late Moganna,                  Aged about 34 years,	PREAMBLE
5. Sri Bharathi,                  D/o.	PREAMBLE
Late Moganna,                  W/o.	PREAMBLE
Late Nanjegowda,                  Aged about 36 years,	PREAMBLE
All are R/at. # 24,              Honnappana	PREAMBLE
Mane Raod,	PREAMBLE
              Yaraganahalli Village,              Kasaba Hobli, Mysuru Taluk.	PREAMBLE
[BY : SRI H.D.N.K., ADVOCATE]DEFENDANTS/S          V/S              ::              1.	PREAMBLE
Smt. Mahadevamma,                  W/o. Muddappa,	PREAMBLE
Aged about 48 years,                  R/	PREAMBLE
at #. 49, Alanahalli Village,	PREAMBLE
Near Basavanagudi,                  Mysuru.	PREAMBLE
              2. Smt. Chikkamma,                  W/o.	PREAMBLE
Siddaraju,                  	PREAMBLE
Aged about 44 years,                  	PREAMBLE
R/at #. 27, Yaraganahalli Village,	PREAMBLE
Kasaba Hobli, Mysuru Taluk.              3. M.C. Nagaraju,                  S/	PREAMBLE
o. Chikkanna,                  	PREAMBLE
Aged about 40 years,                  R	PREAMBLE
/o Alagodu Village,                  	PREAMBLE
Arakere Hobli,                  Srirangapatna Taluk,                  	PREAMBLE
Mandya District.	PREAMBLE
        4. A.J. Appugowda,            S/o.	PREAMBLE
Javaregowda,	PREAMBLE
Aged about 57 years,            R/o	PREAMBLE
Kallahalli Village,	PREAMBLE
            6th cross,	PREAMBLE
V.V.Nagar,	PREAMBLE
            Mandya City.	PREAMBLE
[DEFENDANTS NO.1 & 2 BY : SRI H.S.M.S., ADVOCATE DEFENDANTS NO.3 & 4 BY : SRI O.S.B., ADVOCATE]	PREAMBLE
Date of institution of the suit      25.08.2014	PREAMBLE
Nature of the suit               Declaration and Injunction	PREAMBLE
Date of the commencement             07.07.2015	PREAMBLE
of recording evidence	PREAMBLE
Date on which the Judgment           31.10.2019was pronouncedTotal Duration	PREAMBLE
                  Year/s Month/s  Day/s	PREAMBLE
                                                   06	PREAMBLE
                                 05  02                                                 	PREAMBLE
(SANTHOSH	PREAMBLE
KUMAR SHETTY N.)	PREAMBLE
                                      II ADDL.SENIOR CIVIL JUDGE & CJM.,                                                             MYSURU.                              	PREAMBLE
: J U D G M E N T :	PREAMBLE
This is a suit filed by the plaintiffs for the relief of declaration of their title and Permanent Injunction to restrain the defendants from interfering with their peaceful possession and enjoyment over the suit schedule property and for the costs of the suit. 2.	FAC
The brief facts of the case of the plaintiffs is that, the suit schedule property bearing Sy.No.9/3 measuring 2 acres 9 guntas, situated at Yaraganalli Village, Mysuru Taluk morefully described in the plaint schedule, originally belonged to Smt. Laxmamma and Venkategowda of Yaraganahalli Village.	FAC
On 27.06.1946, the grand mother of defendants No.1 and 2 by name Smt. Muddamma, W/o.	FAC
Chikkegowda had purchased the suit schedule property from the said Laxmamma and Venkategowda under a Registered Sale Deed and thereby khata came to be changed in her name and she was in possession and enjoyment of the suit schedule property as its absolute owner.	FAC
Thereafter, the said Muddamma along with her son and grand son mortgaged the suit schedule property in favour of one Chikkegowda, S/o. Basavegowda of Yaraganahalli Village on 10.06.1956.	FAC
On 20.01.1962, the mortgage was redeemed.	FAC
On 18.01.1962, the said Muddamma and her son Chikkegowda and grand son Madegowda all together executed a Registered Mortgage Deed in favour of one Thimmaiah, S/o. Sepoy Thimmaiah, in respect of the suit schedule property and possession was delivered in his favour.	FAC
Thereafter, the grand father of defendants No.1 and 2 by name Chikkegowda and their father Madegowda, to discharge the loan taken from Thimmaiah sold the suit schedule property in favour of the grand mother of plaintiffs by name Muddamma, W/o. Thimmegowda under a Registered Sale Deed dated 21.10.1963.	FAC
Muddamma, W/o. 	FAC
Thimmegowda herself paid the mortgaged money in favour of Thimmaiah and took possession of the suit schedule property.	FAC
Accordingly, Khata came to be changed in her name and she was enjoyed the suit schedule property as its absolute owner.	FAC
After her death the khata came to be changed in the name of her son Moganna, who was none other than the husband of plaintiff No.1 and father of plaintiffs No.2 to 5 and he was in exclusive possession and enjoyment over the suit schedule property as it is absolute owners and he died on 24.07.1993.	FAC
Thereafter, the plaintiffs became the absolute owners of the suit schedule property.	FAC
After his death the plaintiffs made an application before Tahasildar to get change the khata in their names.	FAC
But the defendants No.1 and 2 without having any manner of right, title, interest or possession over the suit schedule property filed their objection.	FAC
But, their objection came to be rejected and khatha came to be changed in the name of plaintiffs.	FAC
Thereafter, the defendants No.1 and 2 filed a suit against the plaintiffs on the file of II Addl. Civil Judge, Mysuru for the relief of Permanent Injunction in O.S.No.221/1997.	RLC
On 18.10.2011, the suit came to be dismissed.	RLC
Against the said judgement and decree the defendants No.1 and 2 did not prefer any Appeal.	FAC
But the defendants preferred an Appeal before the Assistant Commissioner by challenging the khata effected in the name of Moganna the husband of plaintiff No.1 and father of plaintiffs No.2 to 5, in RRT No.69/2004 05.	FAC
After hearing, the learned Assistant Commissioner has remanded the matter for Tahasildar for fresh enquiry.	RLC
Accordingly, RRC No.21/200607 was reheard by Tahasildar and he passed an order on 04.02.2010 to change the khata in the name of defendants.	RLC
Against the said order the plaintiffs preferred RRT No.257/200910 and when the said Appeal was pending before the Assistant Commissioner the suit instituted by the defendants No.1 and 2 against the plaintiffs in O.S.No.221/1997 was pending.	FAC
Considering the same the learned Assistant Commissioner remanded the matter to the Tahasildar to pass the order as per the findings of the Civil Court in O.S.No.221/1997.	FAC
After dismissal of the said suit, the plaintiffs made their representation on 25.11.2011, requesting the Tahasildar to effect khata in their name.	FAC
But he has issued an endorsement on 09.09.2012 stating that, there is no order by the Civil Court with a direction to change khata in the name of plaintiffs.	FAC
Hence, once again the plaintiffs preferred an Appeal in RRT No.8/2012/13, before the learned Assistant Commissioner and it came to be dismissed on 19.06.2013.	FAC
Against the said order, the plaintiffs have preferred Revision Petition No.33/201314, before the Deputy Commissioner, Mysuru and same is pending for consideration.	FAC
The defendants No.1 and 2 by taking undue advantage of Mutation order in MR.No.8/200910 started interfering with the possession of the plaintiffs and executed a Sale agreement on 28.07.2014 in favour of defendants No.3 and 4.	FAC
Hence, defendants No.3 and 4 have been made as parties to this suit.	FAC
The defendants have no manner of right, title or interest over the suit schedule property.	FAC
Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda never executed any Will in favour of defendants No.1 and 2.	FAC
The defendants No.1 and 2 by creating fictitious Death Certificate of their grand mother created documents in their favour and trying to snatch away the suit schedule property.	FAC
Hence, the suit for aforementioned reliefs.	FAC
 3. In response to the summons, the defendants No.1 and 2 appeared through their counsel and filed their Written Statement and admitted that, their grand mother Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda purchased the suit schedule property from its erstwhile owner Smt. Laxmamma, W/o. Doddaputtegowda and her son Venkategowda and thereby Khata came to be changed in her name as per MR.No.6/1946.	FAC
On 15.06.1973, said Muddamma, W/o.Chikkegowda executed a Will in favour of defendants No.1 and 2 and bequeathed 1 acre 6 guntas of land in favour of defendant No.1 and 1 acre of land in favour of defendant No.2 in the suit schedule property.	FAC
On 01.01.1976, their grand mother Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda died and by virtue of the Will the defendants No.1 and 2 became the absolute owners and in possession of the suit schedule property.	FAC
Eventhough, the plaintiffs have no manner of right, title and interest over the suit schedule property, colluding with the Revenue officials got created Khata in their names in the year 198384.	FAC
When the said fact came to the notice of defendants No.1 and 2, they got changed the khata as per M.R.No.8/2009 in their names by producing the Will.	FAC
Further contended that, the suit is barred by Limitation and suit was not properly valued and Court Fee paid is insufficient and thereby prayed for dismissal of the suit.	FAC
4. In response to the summons, the defendants No.3 and 4 appeared through their counsel and filed their Written Statement and reiterated the contention taken by defendants No.1 and 2.	FAC
Further contended that, the defendants No.1 and 2 being the absolute owners, in possession of the suit schedule property offered to sell the same in favour of defendants No.3 and 4 and thereby executed a Registered Sale Agreement in their favour on 28.07.2014.	FAC
Further contended that, the suit is bad for nonjoinder of necessary parties.	FAC
Hence, amongst other grounds prayed for dismissal of the suit.	FAC
 5. On the basis of the pleadings of the parties, my PredecessorinOffice has framed the following issues for determination: ISSUES 1.	ISSUE
Whether the plaintiffs prove that, they are the absolute owners, in possession of the suit schedule property ?	ISSUE
 2. Whether the plaintiffs further prove the alleged interference by the defendants over the suit schedule property ?	ISSUE
3. Whether the suit of the plaintiff is barred by Limitation? 4.	ISSUE
Whether the Court Fee paid is sufficient ?	ISSUE
5. Whether the defendants No.1 and 2 prove that, the suit schedule property was the selfacquired property of deceased       Muddama,    W/o Chikkegowda ?	ISSUE
6. Whether the defendants No.1 and 2 further proves that deceased Muddamma executed a Will in their favour in respect of the suit schedule property on 15.06.1973 ?	ISSUE
7. Whether the plaintiffs are entitled for the reliefs as sought for in the present suit ?	ISSUE
8. What Order or Decree ?	ISSUE
6. In order to prove their case, the plaintiff No.2 and two independent witnesses by name Ramesh and Srinivas have been examined as PWs.1 to 3.	FAC
The Tahasildar was summoned in their favour examined him as PW.4.	FAC
Ex.P.1 to P51 are marked on behalf of the plaintiffs and closed their side.	FAC
7. On behalf of the Defendants, defendants No.2 and 3 and one witness by name Harish have been examined as DWs.1 to 3 and Ex.D1 to 67 were marked on their behalf and closed their side.	FAC
 8. Heard the arguments of learned counsel for plaintiffs and Defendants.	NONE
The learned counsel for plaintiffs and defendants No.1 and 2 filed their Written Argument.	NONE
 9. My findings on the above Issues are as under: ISSUE NO.1 :  In the Affirmative ISSUE NO.2 :  In the Affirmative ISSUE NO.3 :  In the Negative ISSUE NO.4 :  In the Affirmative ISSUE NO.5 :  In the Negative ISSUE NO.6 :  In the Negative ISSUE NO.7 :  In the Affirmative ISSUE NO.8 :  AS PER FINAL ORDER below for the following ; : R E A S O N S : 10. Issues No.1 to 3, 5 and 6 : Since all these issues are interconnected, they are taken up together for common discussion to avoid repetition of facts.	ANALYSIS
Before looking into the point in controversy, first of all it is just and necessary to ascertain some of the admitted fact.	ANALYSIS
It is not in dispute that, originally the suit schedule property belonged to one Laxmamma, W/o. Doddavenkategowda.	ANALYSIS
It is also not in dispute that, Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda	ANALYSIS
had purchased the suit schedule property from said Laxmamma and her son Venkategowda under a Registered Sale Deed dated 27.06.1946 and Khata came to be changed in the name of Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda.	ANALYSIS
It is also not in dispute that, defendants No.1 and 2 are the grand children of said Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda.	ANALYSIS
It is further admitted that, the said Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda mortgaged the suit schedule property in favour of one Chikkegowda, S/o. Basavegowda and in favour of Sepoy Thimmaiah, S/o. Thimmaiah under a Registered Mortgage Deeds dated 10.06.1956 and 18.01.1962, respectively.	ANALYSIS
Further contention of the plaintiffs is that, after the death of Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda.	ANALYSIS
Chikkegowda, S/o.	ANALYSIS
Bogegowda and his son Madegowda sold the suit schedule property in favour of Muddamma, W/o. Thimmegowda under a Registered Sale Deed dated 21.10.1963.	ANALYSIS
After the death of Muddamma, W/o. Thimmegowda her only son Moganna became the absolute owner, in possession of the suit schedule property and khata came to be changed in his name under I.H.R.No.2/199596 and said Moganna died on 12.02.2003.	ANALYSIS
The plaintiffs No.1 to 5 being the widow and children of said Moganna inherited the suit schedule property and became the absolute owners, in possession of the same.	ANALYSIS
The further case of the plaintiffs that, after the death of Moganna, the plaintiffs approached the Tahasildar for change of khata in their names.	ANALYSIS
Even though the defendants No.1 and 2 did not possession any manner of right, title or interest over the suit schedule property resisted their application by filing an objection.	ANALYSIS
But their objection came to be rejected and khata was made in the name of plaintiffs.	ANALYSIS
Thereafter, the defendants No.1 and 2 instituted a suit against the plaintiffs for the relief of bare Injunction, which came to be dismissed and thereafter lot of litigations continued between plaintiffs and defendants No.1 and 2 before the various revenue Authorities.	ANALYSIS
Hence, they ventured to file this suit for the relief of declaration of their title.	ANALYSIS
 11. In his evidence, PW.1 to some extent deposed in accordance with the case of the plaintiffs.	ANALYSIS
Both Pws.2 and 3, the residents of Yaraganahalli Village, deposed that, the suit schedule properties are in possession and enjoyment of the plaintiffs.	ANALYSIS
PW.4 Ramesh Babu, the Tahasildar, Mysuru deposed that, the Death Register for the year 1946 is not available in their office.	ANALYSIS
The report submitted by him in that regard was marked through him at Ex.C.1 and his signature marked as Ex.C1(a).	ANALYSIS
Further deposed that, Ex.P.28 the Nonavailability Certificate was issued in their office.	ANALYSIS
He also deposed that, Ex.D.8 Death Certificate produced by the defendants was not issued in their office.	ANALYSIS
 12. Percontra, the defendants No.1 and 2 have taken specific defence that, the suit schedule property was the self acquired property of their grand mother Muddamma, W/o.Chikkegowda and they were under the care of their grand mother Muddamma and they assisted their grand mother in cultivating the suit schedule property.	ANALYSIS
On 15.06.1973, the said Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda executed a Will in their favour and thereby bequeathed 1 acre 6 guntas and 1 acre of land in their favour, respectively.	ANALYSIS
They took further contention that, their grand mother Muddamma, W/o.Chikkegowda died on 01.01.1976 and thereby denied the execution of the Sale Deed in favour of Muddamma, W/o.Thimmegowda.	ANALYSIS
 13. In their examinationsinchief, both Dws.1 and 2 have reiterated the contention taken by them in their Written Statement.	ANALYSIS
DW.3 Harish deposed that, one Naganna was his senior uncle and he was a Document Writer by profession.	ANALYSIS
Further deposed that, he is acquainted with the handwriting of his senior uncle and deposed that, the Will produced by the defendants at Ex.D.7 was in the handwriting of his senior uncle.	ANALYSIS
He has identified his senior uncle signature and same was marked as Ex.D.7[a] and he also produced the Death Certificate of his senior uncle and same was marked as Ex.C.2. 14.	ANALYSIS
The documents produced on behalf of the defendants at Ex.D.1 and 2 are the color photographs and CD.	ANALYSIS
Ex.D.3 is the copy of notice issued by the Tahasildar.	ANALYSIS
Ex.D.4 was the Andholana kannada daily Newspaper.	ANALYSIS
Ex.D.6 is the original Sale Deed executed in the name of Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda.	ANALYSIS
Ex.D.7 is the Will relied by defendants No.1 and 2.	ANALYSIS
Ex.D.8 is the alleged Death Certificate of Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda.	ANALYSIS
Ex.D.9 to 67 are the Index of Land, Mutation order, RTC, Patta Book, Tax paid receipts and certified copy of the other proceedings held before the Revenue Authority.	ANALYSIS
 15. It was argued on behalf of the plaintiffs that, by virtue of the Registered Sale Deed executed by Late Chikkegowda and his son Madegowda, Smt. Muddamma, W/o. Thimmegowda became the absolute owners of the suit schedule property and she was in exclusive possession and enjoyment of the same.	ARG_PETITIONER
After her death, her son Moganna was in possession and enjoyment of the same and thereafter the plaintiffs as his legal heirs are in exclusive possession and enjoyment of the suit schedule property.	ARG_PETITIONER
Further argued that, Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda died prior to 1962.	ARG_PETITIONER
Therefore, her husband Chikkegowda and her son Madegowda became the owners of the suit schedule property and sold the same in favour of Muddamma, W/o.Thimmegowda under a Registered Sale Deed dated 21.10.1963.	ARG_PETITIONER
Eventhough, said Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda died prior to the said alienation, defendants No.1 and 2 hatched a plan to grab the suit schedule property and got created the Will in their favour and falsely contended that, their grand mother died in the year 1976.	ARG_PETITIONER
But, the oral evidence of PW.4 and endorsements issued by him marked at Ex.P.28 and 29 makes it very clear that, Ex.D.8 the alleged Death Certificate of Muddamma, W/o.Chikkegowda was created for the sake of this suit.	ANALYSIS
Further argued that, the suit is well within time and thereby plaintiffs are entitled for the relief of declaration and Injunction as prayed for.	ARG_PETITIONER
 16. Refuting the contention taken by the plaintiffs, the learned counsel for defendants No.1 and 2 vehemently argued that, the suit schedule property was the selfacquired property of Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda and during her lifetime she herself was cultivating the suit schedule property and the defendants No.1 and 2 being her grand children were assisting her in cultivating the land and out of love and affection she bequeathed the suit schedule property in their favour and thereby defendants No.1 and 2 became the owners of the suit schedule property and thereby the Sale Agreement executed by them in favour of defendants No.3 and 4 is in accordance with law.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Further argued that, at the time of the alleged Sale Deed in favour of Muddamma, W/o. Thimmegowda, the grand mother of defendants No.1 and 2 was alive and therefore, the father and grand father of defendants No.1 and 2 have no right to execute the Sale Deed in favour of Muddamma, W/o. Thimmegowda.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Further argued that, the principles highlighted in Latin maxim " Nemo dat quod non habet " i.e., Non owner of the goods can not convey better title, is applicable to the case in hand.	ARG_RESPONDENT
 17. The other contentions taken by the defendants No.1 and 2 is that, the suit of the plaintiffs is barred by Limitation.	ARG_RESPONDENT
In support of the said contention the learned counsel for the defendants No.1 and 2 has placed reliance on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in A.I.R.2011 SC 3599 (Khatri Hotesl Pvt. Ltd., V/s Union of India).	ARG_RESPONDENT
At para 27 of the said decision their Lordships have held as under ; " if a suit is based on multiple causes of action, the period of limitation will begin to run from the date when the right to sue first accrues.	ARG_RESPONDENT
To put it differently, successive violation of the right will not give rise to fresh cause and the suit will be liable to be dismissed if it is beyond the period of limitation counted from the date when the right to sue first accrued."	ARG_RESPONDENT
 18. Further argued that, as suit was not filed within 3 years from the date of denial title, the suit is hopelessly barred by limitation.	ARG_RESPONDENT
In that context, he placed reliance on the decision of our Hon'ble High Court reported in 2015 (2) KCCR 1714 (H.B. Shivakumar V/s L.C Hanumanthappa and others).	ARG_RESPONDENT
In the said decision his lordship has held as under : " Limitation for a suit for declaration  suit not filed within 3 years from the date of denial of title  held, suit is barred by limitation.	ARG_RESPONDENT
" 19.	ANALYSIS
As discussed earlier, it was the definite case of the defendants No.1 and 2 that, their grand mother Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda died in the year 1976 and in the year 1973 itself, she executed a Will in their favour as per Ex.D.7 and by virtue of the Will, they became the owners of the suit property.	ANALYSIS
Since none of the attesting witnesses and scribe to the Will are alive, the provisions of Section 69 of Indian Evidence Act is applicable to the case in hand.	ANALYSIS
Hence, in consonance with Section 69 of the Evidence Act, DW.3 who is acquainted with the handwriting of the scribe, has been examined.	ANALYSIS
Further argued that, were all the parties to the Will except the beneficiary is died the provisions of Section 69 have to be applied.	ANALYSIS
If the signature of the scribe has been identified by a fellow writer who was acquainted with the signature, the document can be said to have been proved.	ANALYSIS
 Further argued that, as Will relied by them is of 30 years old, the presumption under Section 90 of Evidence Act is applicable.	ARG_RESPONDENT
In support of the said contention the learned counsel for defendants No.1 and 2 placed reliance on the decision of our Hon'ble High Court report in 2017(4) Kar.L.J 633 (Vasanth H. Jayawant Bhasme and others v/s Shankararao Bhimrao Bhasme and others).	ARG_RESPONDENT
In the said decision his Lordship has held as under ; " Presumption under Section 90  When the propounder finds it difficint to prove the Will, because of nonavailability of attestors  Or because of their death or some other reason  in present case, the Will is of year 1963, became subject matter of dispute in 1995 in such circumstances, the Court may draw presumption under Section 90. "	ARG_RESPONDENT
 20. In the background of the principles laid down in the aforecited decisions, I have carefully gone through the pleadings of the parties and their evidence, both oral and documentary.	ANALYSIS
Ex.D.6 is the original Sale Deed in favour of Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda in respect of the suit schedule property.	ANALYSIS
As discussed earlier, the purchase of suit schedule property by Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda is not in dispute.	ANALYSIS
It is also not in dispute that, on 10.06.1956, said Muddamma her husband and their son Madhegowda together executed a Mortgage Deed in favour of Chikkegowda, S/o. Basavegowda and it was redeemed on 21.01.1962.	ANALYSIS
The said fact is also admitted by DW.1 in the course of her crossexamination dated 20.07.2017.	ANALYSIS
Now the burden lies upon the plaintiffs to prove that, on 18.01.1962, Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda was not alive and thereby her husband Chikkegowda and son Madegowda executed a Registered Mortgage Deed in favour of Sepoy Thimmaiah, S/o. Thimmaiah and thereafter the said Chikkegowda and Madegowda to discharge the loan taken from Sepoy Thimmaiah sold the suit schedule property in favour of Muddamma, W/o. Thimmegowda under a Registered Sale Deed dated 21.10.1963.	ANALYSIS
If plaintiffs are able to establish that, Muddamma, W/o. Thimmegowda acquired right, title and interest over the suit schedule property by virtue of said Sale Deed, there is no impediment to declare the right, title and interest of the plaintiffs over the suit schedule property.	ANALYSIS
21. Percontra, onus is casted upon the defendants No.1 and 2 that, there grand mother Muddamma, W/o.	ANALYSIS
Chikkegowda died in the year 1976 and on 15.06.1973, said Muddamma executed a Will in their favour and thereby bequeathed the suit schedule property as contended by them.	ANALYSIS
 22. To substantiate their contention, the plaintiffs have much relied upon Ex.P.1 to 4 and Ex.P.28 to P30.	ANALYSIS
Ex.P.1 is the certified copy of the Registered Mortgage Deed.	ANALYSIS
The recitals of the said document makes it very clear that, on 10.06.1959, Chikkegowda son of Bogegowda, his wife Muddamma and their son Madegowda jointly executed a Mortgage Deed (without possession) in respect of the suit schedule property in favour of Chikkegowda, S/o.Basavegowda.	ANALYSIS
Ex.P.2 is the certified copy of the Mortgage Deed coupled with possession in respect of the suit schedule property executed by aforesaid 3 persons in favour of aforesaid Chikkegowda, S/o. Basavegowda.	ANALYSIS
Ex.P.3 is the certified copy of the Registered Mortgage Deed dated 18.01.1962 executed by Chikkegowda, S/o. Bogegowda and his son Madegowda in favour of Sepoy Thimmaiah, S/o.Thimmaiah in respect of the suit schedule property.	ANALYSIS
Ex.P.4	ANALYSIS
is the certified copy of the Sale Deed dated 21.10.1963, executed by Chikkegowda, S/o Bogegowda and his son Madegowda in favour of Muddamma, W/o. Thimmegowda in respect of the suit schedule property.	ANALYSIS
Ex.P.28	ANALYSIS
and 29	ANALYSIS
are the certified copies of the Nonavailability Certificates issued by Tahasildar stating that, the death entry of Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda was not entered in the Birth and Death Register, maintained in their office.	ANALYSIS
PW.4the Tahasildar, Mysuru, in his evidence dated 20.09.2018 deposed that, the Birth and Death entries pertains to the year 1962 is not available in their office.	ANALYSIS
The endorsement issued by him in that regard was marked through him as Ex.C.1.	ANALYSIS
He further deposed that, Ex.D.8, the Death Certificate of Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda, said to have been issued in the office of Tahasildar was not issued by their office.	ANALYSIS
Eventhough, he has been crossexamined by the counsel for defendants No.1 and 2, nothing has been elicited to show that, Ex.D.8 was issued in the office of Tahasildar, Mysuru.	ANALYSIS
 23. The recitals of Ex.P.1 and 2 makes it very clear that, at the time of execution of those Mortgage Deeds, Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda was alive and she along with her husband and son jointly executed those Mortgage Deeds.	ANALYSIS
It is not in dispute that, the mortgage made in Ex.D.1 and 2 were redeemed.	ANALYSIS
The said Muddamma, W/o.Chikkegowda was not a party to the subsequent Mortgage deed marked at Ex.P.3.	ANALYSIS
Ex.P.3 was executed by her husband Chikkegowda and her son Madegowda in favour of Sepoy Thimmaiah, S/o. Thimmaiah.	ANALYSIS
It is needless to mention that, while registering the document, the Sub Registrar had an occasion to verify the property extract pertains to the property involved in the document.	ANALYSIS
It seems that, as on the date of execution of Mortgage Deed as per Ex.P.3 in favour of Sepoy Thimmaiah, the grand mother of defendants No.1 and 2 was not alive.	ANALYSIS
It was executed at an undisputed point of time.	ANALYSIS
Even if Muddamma, W/o.Chikkegowda was alive as on that date, certainly the mortgagee would have insisted for the consent of Muddamma and took her signature on the Mortgage Deed.	ANALYSIS
As she was not alive as on that date, there was no occasion to the mortgagee to take her signature on the document.	ANALYSIS
As discussed earlier, for other 2 Mortgage Deeds of the year 1959 the grand mother of defendants No.1 and 2 was a party and she put her thumb impressions on them.	ANALYSIS
Added to that, PW.4 in unequivocal terms of deposed that, Ex.D.8 was not issued in their office.	ANALYSIS
It creates serious doubt about the genuineity and authenticity of Ex.D.8. 24.	ANALYSIS
The contention of the defendants No.1 and 2 is that, their grand mother died only in the year 1976 and 3 years prior to her death, she bequeathed the suit schedule property in their favour.	ANALYSIS
It is pertinent to note that, the defendants No.1 and 2, in the year 1997 filed a suit for the relief of Permanent Injunction on the file of II Civil Judge and J.M.F.C., Mysuru, in respect of the suit schedule property against the husband of plaintiff No.1 and father of remaining plaintiffs.	ANALYSIS
Ex.P.30 is the certified copy of the judgement and decree in O.S.No.221/1997.	ANALYSIS
Ex.P.40 to 42 are the certified copies of plaint, Written Statement in the said suit.	ANALYSIS
Ex.P.44 is the certified copy of the evidence given by defendant No.2 herein in the said suit.	ANALYSIS
The case setup by defendants No.1 and 2 is clearly forthcoming in para2 of the Ex.P.40.	ANALYSIS
Wherein they have taken contention that, as per family arrangement the suit schedule property was given to them and they are in exclusive possession and enjoyment of the same.	ANALYSIS
In her examinationinchief by way of Affidavit dated 20.12.2007, the defendant No.2 has reiterated the averments made in the plaint that, they are in actual possession and enjoyment of the suit schedule property as per the family arrangement.	ANALYSIS
Neither in their plaint nor in her evidence dated 20.12.2007, any whisper about the Will, now relied by them and marked at Ex.D.7.	ANALYSIS
As discussed earlier, in this suit also, the defendant No.2 has entered into the witness box as DW.1.	ANALYSIS
In her crossexamination dated 20.07.2017 she deposed that, 2 years prior to the institution of O.S.No.221/1997, they found the Will, now relied by them.	ANALYSIS
If it was so, certainly there was no impediment to them to plead about the alleged Will in their suit in O.S.No.221/1997.	ANALYSIS
It is pertinent to note that, in the aforesaid suit, the defendant No.2 herein filed one more Affidavit by way of examinationinchief on 24.04.2009 and on the said date, for the first time she stated about the Will dated 15.06.1973, now relied by them.	ANALYSIS
 25. Except the Will relied by the defendants marked at Ex.D.7, all other documents pertains to the suit schedule property are registered documents.	ANALYSIS
According to the defendants No.1 and 2, the Will came to be executed in the year 1973.	ANALYSIS
No doubt, Will need not be registered.	ANALYSIS
But, 1959 onwards, all documents came to be executed with respect to the suit schedule property were registered before the Sub Registrar.	ANALYSIS
That itself shows that, parties were very well aware about the consequences of registration.	ANALYSIS
26. Ex.P.30 makes it very clear that, the plaintiffs have produced their original Sale Deed before the said Court.	ANALYSIS
The learned Judge after going through the documents and oral evidence came to the conclusion that, the defendants No.1 and 2 were failed to prove possession of the suit schedule property and thereby their suit came to be dismissed.	ANALYSIS
It is an admitted fact that, defendants No.1 and 2 did not prefer any appeal against the judgement and decree passed in O.S.No.221/1997.	ANALYSIS
Now the contention of the defendants No.1 and 2 is that, the said suit was for the relief of bare injunction and title of the parties was not decided in the said suit.	ANALYSIS
But, the Court has clearly held that, the defendants No. 1 and 2 are not in possession of the suit property and the findings given therein remained unchallenged.	ANALYSIS
 27. It is needless to mention that, the Tahasildar is the custodian of Birth and Death Register, maintained in the Taluk Office.	ANALYSIS
The Tahasildar himself appeared before the court and deposed that, Ex.D.8 was not issued by their office.	ANALYSIS
But, the learned counsel for the defendants No.1 and 2 much canvased before the Court that, nothing was produced by the plaintiffs to show that, Muddamma, W/o.Chikkegowda was died prior to 1962.	ANALYSIS
It is not in dispute that, the plaintiffs are not blood relatives of said Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda.	ANALYSIS
However, the defendants No.1 and 2 are the grand daughters of said Muddamma.	ANALYSIS
Hence, it was obligatory on the part of the defendants No.1 to 2 to report the death of their grand mother to the concerned Registrar to make necessary entries.	ANALYSIS
It seems that, there was latches on their part.	ANALYSIS
It gives strong inference that, the defendants No.1 and 2 to suit their convenience, got created Ex.D.8 and produced it before the Court.	ANALYSIS
But, the plaintiffs by summoning the Tahasildar conveniently proved that, Ex.D.8 was not issued in the office of Tahasildar and it was created by the defendants for the sake of defence.	ANALYSIS
 28. On more thing canvased on behalf of the defendants is that, the original Sale Deed of Muddamma, W/o.Chikkegowda is in the custody of defendants No.1 and 2 and that itself shows that, the property was not alienated in favour of Muddamma, W/o. Thimmegowda.	ANALYSIS
But, it is relevant to mention that, at the time of execution of Sale Deed in favour of Muddamma, W/o. Thimmegowda, the property was mortgaged in favour of Sepoy Thimmaiah and it is evident in Ex.P.3.	ANALYSIS
As the property was mortgaged, the purchaser Muddamma, W/o. Thimmegowda much concentrated on redemption of mortgage and did not bother about the original Sale Deed.	ANALYSIS
It is definite case of the plaintiffs that, Muddamma, W/o. Thimmegowda herself paid the mortgage money in favour of Sepoy Thimmaiah and thereby mortgage was redeemed and then got the Sale Deed in her favour.	ANALYSIS
 29. It is not the case of defendants No.1 and 2 that, their father and grand father were addicted to bad vices.	ANALYSIS
Except the bald contention that, Muddamma, W/o.Thimmegowda got created the Sale Deed in her favour no any serious allegations were made against Chikkegowda, S/o. Bogegowda and his son Madhegowda.	ANALYSIS
It is not in dispute that, Chikkegowda, S/o. Bogegowda and Madegowda were the husband and son of Late Muddamma, W/o.Chikkegowda.	ANALYSIS
Such being the case, after her death they became the owners of the suit schedule property, as they were her classI legal heirs.	ANALYSIS
Hence, the theory of " Nemo dat quod non habet" adopted by defendants No.1 and 2 holds no water.	ANALYSIS
Now it is clear that, immediately after the death of Muddamma, W/o. Chikkegowda, her husband and son became the owners and alienated the property in favour of Muddamma, W/o. Thimmegowda.	ANALYSIS
 30. As per proviso contained under Section 128 of Karnataka Land Revenue Act, it was the bounden duty of Revenue officials, to make change of khata on the strength of registered document.	ANALYSIS
But there were certain latches on their part.	ANALYSIS
It is needless to mention that, revenue authority has no right to decide the title of the parties and it is the prerogative of the Civil Court.	ANALYSIS
As such, any of the findings given in the revenue proceedings would not come in the way of this suit for declaring the title of the parties.	ANALYSIS
 31. As revenue proceedings was held before various revenue authorities for considerable length of time and the plaintiffs made their efforts to get the relief before the revenue authority, no reason to hold that, the suit is barred by Limitation.	ANALYSIS
It is not in dispute that, at the time of institution of this suit, the Revision Petition filed by the plaintiffs before the Deputy Commissioner was pending for consideration.	ANALYSIS
Such being the case, the law laid down in any of the decisions relied by defendants No.1 and 2 would not come to their rescue.	ANALYSIS
As such, the law laid down by our Hon'ble High Court in the case of Dasapa Setty v/s Thammannagowda (report in A.I.R. 1994 Kar. 153) is aptly applicable to the case in hand.	PRE_RELIED
In the said decision his Lordship made it clear that, the plaintiff can file a suit for declaration of title when he feels that, title is jeopardised and his title subsists.	ANALYSIS
With these observations, Issues No.1 and 2 are answered in the Affirmative and Issue No.3, 5 and 6 in the Negative. 32. Issue No.4:	ANALYSIS
The plaintiffs have calculated the Court Fee as per Section 24(b) and 26(c) of the Karnataka Court Fee and Suit Valuation Act and paid the Court Fee Rs.1,54,700/.	ANALYSIS
After going through the relief claimed in the suit and the valuation made by the plaintiffs, this court has come to the conclusion that, the Court Fee paid on the plaint is sufficient.	ANALYSIS
Accordingly, this Issue is answered in the Affirmative.	ANALYSIS
 33. Issue No.7 :	ANALYSIS
While answering aforementioned Issues this court has come to the conclusion that, the plaintiffs have established their right, title, interest and possession over the suit schedule property and defendants have miserably failed to prove their right, title and interest including the possession over the suit schedule property.	ANALYSIS
As the property was alienated in favour of Muddamma, W/o.Thimmegowda way back in the year 1962, the defendants No.1 and 2 not at all derived any right, title or interest over the suit schedule property either by way of testamatary or nontestamatary succession.	ANALYSIS
Hence, they have no right to execute the Sale Agreement in favour of the defendants No.3 and 4.	ANALYSIS
As such, the alleged Sale Agreement in favour of defendants No.3 and 4 has no force in the eye of law.	ANALYSIS
Such being the case, the plaintiffs are entitled for the relief of declaration and Injunction as prayed for.	ANALYSIS
Accordingly, Issue No.7 is answered in the Affirmative.	ANALYSIS
 34. Issue No.8	NONE
: For the reasons discussed above, I proceed to pass the following : ORDER	NONE
The suit of the plaintiffs is decreed with cost as under ; It is hereby ordered and decreed that, the plaintiffs are the owners and in possession of the suit schedule property.	RPC
 It is further ordered and decreed that, the defendants No.1 to 4 are hereby restrained from interfering with the possession and enjoyment of the plaintiffs over the suit schedule property.	RPC
 Draw decree accordingly.	RPC
 (Dictated to the Stenographer transcribed by her corrected and then pronounced by me in open Court, on this the 31.10.2019).	NONE
 (SANTHOSH KUMAR SHETTY N.) II ADDL.SENIOR CIVIL JUDGE & CJM., MYSURU.	NONE
 A N N E X U R E	NONE
LIST OF WITNESSES EXAMINED FOR THE PLAINTIFF/S : PW.1  M. Mahesh PW.2  Ramesh PW.3  Srinivas PW.4  T.Ramesh Babu LIST OF DOCUMENTS EXHIBITED FOR THE PLAINTIFF/S : Ex.P.1 & 2	NONE
Certified copies of Mortgage Ex.P.3 &4      Deed Ex.P.5 to 18   Certified copies of Sale Deed Ex.P.19 to 22 Ex.P.23 to 25  	NONE
Certified copies of RTCs Ex.P.26 & 27   Mutation orders Ex.P.28 & 29 Certified copies of Tax paid Ex.P.30 receipts Ex.P.31        Certified copies of Patta Books Ex.P.32        Certified copies of Non Ex.P.33        availability certificates Certified copy of Judgement in Ex.P.34 O.S.No.221/1997 Ex.P.35        	NONE
Certified copy of Order of Ex.P.36        Assessment Commissioner Ex.P.37	NONE
Certified copy of Order of Ex.P.38 Ex.P.39        Tahasildar Certified copy of Order of Ex.P.40 Assessment Commissioner Ex.P.41	NONE
Certified copy of application Ex.P.42        made to Tahasildar Certified copy of Registered Ex.P.43 Sale Agreement Ex.P.44        Paper Publication Reply Notice Postal receipt Certified copy of Order of Deputy Commissioner Certified copy of Plaint in O.S.No.221/1997 Certified copy of Written Statement                           in O.S.No.221/1997 Certified copy of objection in O.S.No.221/1997 Certified copy of Issues in O.S.No.221/1997 Certified copy of examinin chief      of      PW.1             in	NONE
Certified copy of Order sheet Ex.P.45 Ex.P.46        in O.S.No.101/2011 Ex.P.47        Certified copy of plaint in Ex.P.48        O.S.No.27/2012 Certified copy of Additional Ex.P.49 to 51 Written    Statement               in O.S.No.27/2012 Certified copy of Additional Written    Statement               in O.S.No.27/2012 Certified copies of Sale Deeds LIST OF WITNESSES EXAMINED FOR THE DEFENDANT/S : DW.1           Chikkamma DW.2	NONE
          Naganna DW.3	NONE
Harish LIST OF DOCUMENTS EXHIBITED FOR THE DEFENDANT/S:	NONE
Ex.D.1	NONE
Photo Ex.D.2         CD Ex.D.3         	NONE
Notice issued by Tahasildar Ex.D.4         Paper Publication Ex.D.5         	NONE
Photo Ex.D.6         	NONE
Sale Deed Ex.D.7         Will Ex.D.8	NONE
Death Certificate of Muddamma Ex.D.9         Index of Land Ex.D.10        Sketch Ex.D.11 & 12   Mutation Orders Ex.D.13 to 20  RTCs Ex.D.21 & 22   Patta Books Ex.D.23 to 32  	NONE
Tax paid receipts Ex.D.33        	NONE
Certified copy of order of Assistant Commissioner Ex.D.34        Certified copy of order of Tahasildar Ex.D.35 & 36	NONE
Certified copies of order of Assistant Commissioner Ex.D.37 to 40  Photos Ex.D.41 Ex.D.42        CD Ex.D.43 to 49  Certified copy of Notice issued Ex.D.50        by Tahasildar RTCs Ex.D.51 to 54 Ex.D.55 to 57  Office copy of legal notice dated Ex.D.58        04.03.2017 Ex.D.58[a]     Postal receipts Ex.D.59 to 64 Ex.D.65        Postal Acknowledgements Ex	NONE
.D.66 Ex.D.67	NONE
Unserved postal cover Legal notice RTCs Certified copy of Price list Certified copy of RFR Certified copy of Sketch	NONE
LIST OF DOCUMENTS EXHIBITED MARKED UNDER CSERIES Ex.C.1         Report of Tahasildar Ex.C.1[a]      Signature Ex.C.2         Death Certificate (SANTHOSH KUMAR SHETTY N.) II ADDL.SENIOR CIVIL JUDGE & CJM., MYSURU. 	NONE
