IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA             KALABURAGI BENCH  DATED THIS THE 2ND DAY OF NOVEMBER 2017                                PRESENT	PREAMBLE
  THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE K.N.PHANEENDRA                                    ANDTHE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE N.K.SUDHINDRARAO	PREAMBLE
CRIMINAL REFERENCE CASE NO.200001/2016	PREAMBLE
C/W        CRIMINAL APPEAL No.200033/2016CRL.RC.No.200001/2016:                 ...	PREAMBLE
Appellant	PREAMBLE
BETWEEN:The Additional Registrar General,High Court of Karnataka,Kalaburagi.(By Sri Prakash Yeli, Addl. S.P.P.)AND:Devendra S/o Sharanappagouda HalamaniAge: 32 years, Occ: AgricultureR/o Chabanur village,Tq. Basavana BagewadiDist: Vijaypur.                        ... Respondent	PREAMBLE
(By Sri R.S. Lagali, Advocate)	PREAMBLE
         This Criminal Reference Case is filed under Section366 of Code of Criminal Procedure for confirmation of deathsentence awarded to accused by the judgment of convictiondated 06.02.2016 and order of conviction dated 09.02.2016passed in Sessions Case No.96/2012 by the I Addl. SessionsJudge, Vijaypur.CRL.A.No.200033/2016:BETWEEN:Devendra S/o Sharanappagouda Halamani  ... AppellantAge: 32 years, Occ: AgricultureR/o Chabanur village,Tq. Basavana BagewadiDist: Vijaypur.	PREAMBLE
(By Sri R.S.Lagali, Advocate)	PREAMBLE
AND:The State of Karnataka                 ... Respondent	PREAMBLE
Rep. by the PSI	PREAMBLE
Talikoti PS.	PREAMBLE
(By Sri Prakash Yeli, Addl. S.P.P.)	PREAMBLE
         This Criminal Appeal is filed under Section 374(2) ofCr.P.C. praying to admit this appeal, call for the records fromthe court below, allow the appeal and thereby set aside thejudgment of conviction dated 06.02.2016 and order ofconviction dated 09.02.2016 passed in Sessions CaseNo.96/2012 by the I Addl. Sessions Judge, Vijaypur andacquit the appellant.         This Criminal Reference Case as well as the Appeal	PREAMBLE
having been heard, reserved for judgment on 29.08.2017and coming on for pronouncement of judgment this day,	PREAMBLE
N.K.Sudhindrarao J., delivered the following:-                                JUDGMENT        	PREAMBLE
The accused is in judicial custody.	FAC
 2. As the facts unfurl the details are that, a criminal case came to be registered in Cr.No.221/2011 on the basis of a complaint lodged by one Mallannagouda, stating that he is the husband of Parvati, father of three daughters and a son.	FAC
He further states that his son Madivalappa aged 6 years was missing from 2.30 p.m. on 15.12.2011.	FAC
The complaint was lodged at 8.30 p.m. on the same day, as his son Madivalappagouda who was attending the school at Heroor did not return on 15.12.2011 despite other students returning to their respective homes as usual.	FAC
He goes to the school and enquires and comes to know that his son had already left at 2.30 p.m.	FAC
The complaint came to be registered in Crime No.221/2011.	FAC
However, on 18.12.2011 the FIR that was registered in the said crime number " for missing" came to be transformed to one in respect of the offence punishable under Sections 364 and 302 of Indian Penal Code.	FAC
3. The information given on 18.12.2011 by the complainant that Devendra son of Sharanappa kidnapped the his son Madivalappagowda aged 6 years on 15.12.2011 that was registered "for missing" from the school in which he was studying at Heroor and was murdered by the accused by beheading the child with a sharp weapon.  He refers his previous complaint/statement filed by him on 15.12.2011 wherein he lodged a missing complaint of his son.	FAC
In the complaint dated 18.12.2011 it is stated that the accused kidnapped Madivalappagouda from the school at Heroor and murdered him in the land of Shahhusain Hajisab Inamdar at Hireur village and FIR came to be transformed for the offence punishable under Sections 364 and 302 of IPC.	FAC
He further states that the accused was pressurizing him to give his daughter Basamma in marriage to him, that proposal was ultimately refused by the complainant, and the accused stooped to the level of kidnapping and murdering Madivalappa Gouda as mark of vengeance.	FAC
 4. The dead body of Madivalappagouda was found at the land of Shahhusain Hajisab in two parts as the child was beheaded.	FAC
It is also stated that the accused was also warning that the complainant and his family would learn a lesson only if any one of their family member was murdered.	FAC
The complainant went to school and came to know from the teachers Sharada and Shahida Pinjar that a male person took Madivalappagouda at 2.30 p.m. on 15.12.2011 was addressed by the Madivalappagouda as Maama.	FAC
It is that time, the complainant showed the photo of the accused in the case.	FAC
The teachers on seeing the photo of the accused confirmed the complainant that the person in the said photo was the same one who took Madivalappagouda from the school on 15.12.2011.	FAC
He also encloses the copy of the complaint lodged on 15.12.2011.	FAC
 5. The inquest mahazar as per Ex.P.8 on the dead body of Madivalappagouda was conducted on 18.12.2011 during which the statements of the parents, Ishwarappagouda, the uncle of the child were recorded.	FAC
After the said formalities, the dead body was sent for post-mortem.	FAC
6. Upon the completion of investigation, the final report came to be filed for the offence punishable under Sections 364 and 302 of IPC against the accused Devendrappa S/o Sharanappa in CC No.28/2012. 7.	FAC
The matter was committed to the Sessions Court.	FAC
After the case was being presented by the learned Public Prosecutor, the trial Court heard regarding charge and found grounds to frame charges for the offences punishable under Setions 364 and 302 of IPC.	FAC
The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.	FAC
 8. The prosecution has examined PWs.1 to 20 including the prime witnesses complainant, his brother Mallannagouda S/o Sharanagouda, Shahida Begum, Laxman Bhimappa Badiger, Dr. Satish Tiwari I.O.V.R.Yalagi and documents Ex.P.1 to P.26 including complaint, missing complaint, seizure mahazars, post- mortem report, FIR, FSL report, M.O.1 to 16 including shirt, half pant, socks, shoes, kerchief, sickle, sample bloodstained soil were marked.	FAC
No witnesses were examined by the defence.	FAC
Ex.D.1	FAC
and D.2 are portion of the statement of PW.9 Shivanna Ningappa Basavannavar, PW.17 Devindrappa Tipper Dhannur.	FAC
 9. The learned counsel for the appellant would submit that the very ground of vengeance theory by the complainant cannot be believed taking to the extent of causing death of the victim.	ARG_PETITIONER
He further submits that the accused was not that cruel nor had any criminal background to commit either kidnapping or the murder of Madivalappagouda.	ARG_PETITIONER
He would further submit that the sequence of events and documents regarding spot mahazar Ex.P.6 , place of offence Ex.P.7, recovery of clothes Ex.P.11 are imaginary and documents that came out of connivance between the complainant and the police.	ARG_PETITIONER
It is also his contention that the version of the witnesses PW.6 Abdul Gani, Nabisab Mukhiya, PW.8 Shahida Begum, Gudusab Pinjar bear strong layer of falsehood and their version speaks lot of exaggeration and not worth reliable.	ARG_PETITIONER
Further the learned trial judge has not properly evaluated the oral and documentary evidence and failed to conclude on the innocence of the accused.	ARG_PETITIONER
Learned counsel for the appellant would further submit that the judgment wherein the accused was convicted is not justifiable and based on valid reasons.	ARG_PETITIONER
The accused being an innocent is not liable for the punishment, rather thinking of death sentence to him by considering the case as the `rarest of the rare' one.	ARG_PETITIONER
In this connection, he placed reliance on the following decisions: (1) 1973 SCC (Cri) 169 (Jagmohan Singh vs. The State of U.P.) (2) 1979 SCC (Cri) 749 (Rajendra Prasad vs. State of Uttar Pradesh) (3) 1980 SCC (Cri) 580 (Bachan Singh vs. State of Punjab)	ARG_PETITIONER
(4) 1983 SCC (Cri) 681 (Machhi Singh and others vs. State of Punjab)	ARG_PETITIONER
(5) (2008) 2 SCC (Cri) 322 (Swamy Shraddananda Alias Murali Manohar Mishra vs. State of Karnataka) (6) (2013) 2 SCC 452 (Sangeet and Another vs. State of Haryana)	ARG_PETITIONER
(7) 2002 SCC (Cri) 153 (Thanedar Singh vs. State of M.P.)	ARG_PETITIONER
10. Learned Additional S.P.P. supporting the judgment and order of conviction passed by the learned Sessions Judge, seeks to confirm the judgment convicting and death sentence imposed on the accused and to dismiss the appeal preferred by the appellant/accused.	ANALYSIS
Learned Addl. S.P.P. on the sentence of death penalty being imposed to the accused would submit that the barbaric way of murder of Madivalappagouda by beheading the child prior to which mouth was stuffed with cloth, create a fearsome situation and frightening atmosphere in the mind of the entire society, more particularly, women and children.	ANALYSIS
Thus, prays to confirm the death sentence by rejecting the appeal.	ANALYSIS
11. The question before us is that does the accused Devendra kidnapped Madivalappagouda son of the complainant on 15.12.2011 and murdered the said child, as the dead body was discovered on 18.12.2011.	ISSUE
In case the offence under Section 302 of IPC is established, does it fall under rarest of rare categories to attract death sentence.	ISSUE
 12. As the offence leveled against the accused is one punishable under Section 302 of IPC, it is incumbent on the part of the prosecution to establish that the death of Madivalappagouda aged 6 years that was traced on 18.12.2011 subsequent to complaint dated 15.12.2011 was homicide and not a natural.	ANALYSIS
In this connection, the complaint dated 15.12.2011 and 18.12.2011, the recovery of the dead body on 18.12.2011 at a distant place with head ripped apart from the body getting decomposed wherein maggots were crawling over the head invariably establish that the death was not a natural one, but homicide.	ANALYSIS
 13. Complainant as PW.1 on oath reiterates the contents of the complaint dated 15.12.2011 and 18.12.2011 to the effect, missing of the child and later finding that the he was being kidnapped by the accused who murdered him between 15.12.2011 and 18.12.2011.	ANALYSIS
He further states that the clue was provided by the teacher regarding the person who took the child on 15.12.2011 was the accused, when on seeing photograph the teacher confirmed that it was the accused person.	ANALYSIS
The complainant also states that the accused was waiting to take vengeance against him, as the complainant and his family members had refused to give in marriage Basamma, the sister of Madivalappagouda, to accused.	ANALYSIS
 14. In the said connection, the evidence of Gurupadappa PW.7 reveals that the refusal of the complainant to give his daughter in marriage to the accused and the latter's disappointment.	ANALYSIS
 15. The evidence of the teacher PW.9 is to the effect that she identified the person who took the child from the school at Heroor at 2.30 p.m. on 18.12.2011. 16.	ANALYSIS
During inquest mahazar Ex.P.8 Parvati mother of the victim, uncle Eshwargouda, Abdul Rahiman and others were present and their statements also were recorded.	ANALYSIS
Spot mahazar Ex.P.6	ANALYSIS
dated 19.12.2011 was conducted at the school premises from where victim Madivalappagouda was kidnapped.	ANALYSIS
Ex.P.5 is the mahazar for having seized the clothes found on the dead body.	ANALYSIS
The articles that were seized after the completion of post-mortem are shirt, half pant, underwear, saffron colour underwear, kerchief and black shoes that were produced by the CPC 496.	ANALYSIS
Ex.P.7	ANALYSIS
is the mahazar dated 19.12.2011 for seizing blood stained soil and ordinary soil from the place of offence.	ANALYSIS
 17. Blood stained Clothes of the accused were seized on 19.12.2011 as per Ex.P.11.	ANALYSIS
Seizure of the weapon from the accused Ex.P.4 is said to have been conducted for having recovered from the accused after discovering the same at the instance of the accused.	ANALYSIS
From the spot cloth like kerchief said to have been used for inserting in the mouth of the victim to block respiration was also seized in addition beer bottle, opener and chilly powder.	ANALYSIS
The sickle said to have been used by the accused for committing the offence was also seized.	ANALYSIS
Insofar as the incident of murder is concerned, admittedly there are no eyewitnesses.	ANALYSIS
18. Insofar as the dead body of victim as described in Ex.P.15 post-mortem report dated 18.12.2011 conducted between 5.40 p.m. to 6.40 p.m.and the doctor who conducted the postmortem states that the dead body was decomposed, distended and disfigured and discoloured emitting foul odder and maggots were found crawling over the head.	ANALYSIS
The doctor PW.15 Dr. Satish Tiwari who conducted the post- mortem has also concluded that the death was due to asphyxia because of the deep neck injuries.	ANALYSIS
It is also to be stated that the said injury was the one to the maximum worst possible extent one could get inflicted as it is in the form of severance of head.	ANALYSIS
 19. The teachers which included PW-9 told him that it was the person in the photo who took the child along with him.	ANALYSIS
Moreover, the child Madivalappagouda responded as "mama" to that person who is the accused.	ANALYSIS
Under such circumstances, one may take that the child and the accused were familiar to each other.	ANALYSIS
20. In substance he neither helps the prosecution nor the accused.	ANALYSIS
21. Insofar as PW.10 Inamdar is a circumstantial witness who states that he is the neighbouring land owner he came to know about the incident.	ANALYSIS
22. Prabhu PW.12 in his evidence dated 16.4.2015 states having seen the accused running towards Nala on the date of incident holding the sickle.	ANALYSIS
23. Sajjad Khadri PW.13 in his evidence dated 16.4.2015 states that he has seen the child going along with the accused towards Fatepur road and later for having seen its dead body on 18.12.2011.	ANALYSIS
24. Incidentally PW.13 goes away from his version during the cross-examination that was conducted in the second session regarding hearing sound and seeing the incident in a way beneficial to the accused.	ANALYSIS
He was cross-	ANALYSIS
examined by the learned Public Prosecutor as well.	ANALYSIS
25. Dr.Satish PW.15	ANALYSIS
who in his evidence dated...	ANALYSIS
states about external injuries and the body being divided into two parts with neck injury to the maximum extent because of beheading.	ANALYSIS
He also has identified 9 injuries out of which six were stab injuries.	ANALYSIS
26. Evidence of PW.16 is for having carried the FIR.	ANALYSIS
PW.17 examined on 18.6.2016 states that on 3 to 3  years back having seen the accused with bloodstained clothe wandering here and there in shock.	ANALYSIS
 27. Sangangouda PW.18 states for having seen the accused in M.Os.11 and 12 blood stained and the accused in a state of shock.	ANALYSIS
 28. PW.19 Police Officer states about the investigation, recording statement, receiving FSL report and the related.	ANALYSIS
 29. The father of the victim noticing non-arrival of his son Madivalappagouda to home from the school on 15.12.2011 lodged complaint-Ex.P.1 to the police and it was registered in Cr.No.221/2011 and the said version is corroborated by the evidence of the teacher PW.8.	ANALYSIS
 30. From the evidence of PWs.11 and 12 it is seen that the accused with a bag in his hand was seen walking along with Madivalappagouda on 15.12.2011 at the outskirts towards Fatepur road.	ANALYSIS
 31. Further  both  accused  and Madivalappagouda were seen in the land of Abbasali Kambar by PWs.11 and 12.	ANALYSIS
However, their exaggerated version goes beyond believable portion regarding the description of the incident as they are not eyewitnesses. 32.	ANALYSIS
The accused was seen rushing towards nala in blood stained clothes is confirmed by the evidence of PW.12.	ANALYSIS
 33. Further the accused alone was seen in bloodstained clothes in a state of shock at the Bus Stand by PW.18. 34.	ANALYSIS
The accused and the complainant have their own grouse and vengeance for exchanging against each other insofar as complainant, he asserts that the accused developed vengeance on him as the former did not give his daughter Basamma in marriage to the accused.	ANALYSIS
The accused claims that the complainant was owing Rs.10,00,000/- to him and he wanted to escape from the liability of repayment and was waiting for an opportunity and has used the incident by filing the complaint against the accused.	ANALYSIS
35. No doubt, a person who commits an offence, more particularly, the heinous one may keep the cause or the purpose in dark, rather, make the people around and the officials who are conducting the investigation of that case.	ANALYSIS
More often, that is not when the offender apprehends backfiring if the object is known to others.	ANALYSIS
Thus, the others may go on by presuming a wrong object.	ANALYSIS
Thus, whether the main motive or the material motive for committing the offence may not be known to the other or not, the motive cannot get extinguished.	ANALYSIS
Further, the commission of offence may itself can be the object or may be even to hide the real object.	ANALYSIS
36. The concept of motive for committing a crime may also depend upon the nature and wisdom of a person who commits offence under particular circumstances and some go on offensive on the innocent.	ANALYSIS
Thus, just because the motive is not established in fool proof, it cannot be concluded that offence was not committed.	ANALYSIS
Further behind every offence there will be an offender and the court takes the cognizance of the offence and not the offender.	ANALYSIS
There are cases where motive or design to commit an offence is by a sadist, is nothing but his mindset that drives into commit offence.	ANALYSIS
 37. The child when alive disappeared from the school.	ANALYSIS
Insofar as the memory of the witnesses are concerned, due to limited development and limited population in rural side, people therein have a tendency to have the familiarity of each other and also identify the land or garden with particular name and even persons to refer with their status or avocation when they do not know or remember the names.	ANALYSIS
38. Insofar as the scene of offence on 18.12.2011 has been so ghastly that it was worst form of punishment to anybody to see his offspring of six years, the only male issue lying dead after being beheaded, is a nightmare for remaining portion of his life.	ANALYSIS
 39. Insofar as the witness in connection with the recovery of weapon or soil turning hostile does not leave any impact of affecting the case as it is corroborated by the documentary evidence issued by the expert in respect of soil, blood and the weapon used for offence and the Investigating Officer.	ANALYSIS
 40. There need not be a second occasion to conclude that the child Madivalappagouda was kidnapped by the accused Devendra from the school on 15.12.2011 and discovered dead on 18.12.2011 and the death was homicidal and ghastly and the mode of causing death was so barbaric it is even horrible to imagine that a child of six year was shown the highest form of fear and terror by inserting clothes into its mouth to make it help and speechless before he was done to death.	ANALYSIS
 41. The sole defence of the accused is indebtedness of the complainant to the extent of Rs.10,00,000/- to the accused.	ANALYSIS
This version is totally unreliable and ignored in the context of circumstances.	ANALYSIS
Thus, not relied upon.	ANALYSIS
The sighting of accused with the son of the complainant is identified by the reliable and natural witnesses PWs.6, 7, 8, 11, 13 and 18 and has all the efficacy of legal force.	ANALYSIS
 42. The accused kidnapped the child on 15.12.2011 as stated above and took it to unknown place and murdered him by beheading in a most fearsome way and creating dangerous and unimaginable fear.	ANALYSIS
Fear and threat to the core was employed by the accused on the child just prior to getting murdered.	ANALYSIS
The version of the prosecution is corroborated by the complaint-Ex.P.1, inquest mahazar-Ex.P.8, spot mahazar-Ex.6, evidence of PW.1, school teacher PW.-8 recovery of dead body in two parts further strengthens the prosecution case.	ANALYSIS
43. The child was put to fear and cloth was inserted in its mouth to make it speech and helpless, even otherwise, the child was in a no match in terms of power of the offender possessed weapon as well.	ANALYSIS
 44. The child was in the school uniform when he was murdered after getting kidnapped.	ANALYSIS
 45. Kidnapping a minor child happens for various aspects example, abusing, ransom, trafficking, beggar which are punishable under various sections of IPC.	ANALYSIS
 46. In the present case, the offences charged against the accused are punishable under Section 364 and 302 of IPC.	ANALYSIS
Further the kidnapping may not be for any of said purposes or even it may be for the refusal of marriage with Basamma aspect as stated by the complainant.	ANALYSIS
 47. The accused after the brutal act of murdering the child has gone clueless and terribly upset apprehending of being caught and entered shock and panic, thereby appears to have decided that the only way out is to murder the child and committed the gruesome act of murdering Madivalappagouda.	ANALYSIS
 48. The prosecution has proved the commission of the offence punishable under Section 364 and 302 of IPC beyond reasonable doubt to the effect that the accused kidnapped Madivalappagouda aged 6 years on 15.12.2011 and murdered the said boy somewhere at a particular time between the evening of 15.12.2011.	ANALYSIS
 49. We do not find any infirmity, irregularity or breach of legal barriers in the judgment of the trial Court holding the accused guilty of kidnapping and murdering Madivalappagouda.	ANALYSIS
 50. The learned trial judge has sentenced the accused with death penalty.	ANALYSIS
As the offence under Section 300 defines the murder and section 302 provides for punishment, it is necessary to mention both the sections.	STA
 "300. Murder  Except in the cases hereinafter excepted, culpable homicide is murder, if the act by which the death is caused is done with the intention of cause death, or	STA
Secondly  	STA
If it is done with the intention of causing such bodily injury as the offender knows to be likely to cause the death of the person to whom the harm is caused, or  Thirdly  If it is done with the intention of causing bodily injury to any person and the bodily injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, or  Fourthly  If the person committing the act knows that it is so imminently dangerous that it must, in all probability, cause death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, and commits such act without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid. 302. Punishment for murder  	STA
Whoever commits murder shall be punished with death, or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine." 51.	STA
The offence punishable under Section 302 IPC relates to murder which is punishable with imprisonment for life and fine or death sentence.	ANALYSIS
In the present case the learned trial Judge has ordered death sentence to the accused.	ANALYSIS
Under Section 366 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, whenever, the Sessions Judge that the accused to be sentenced to death, has to send the finding to the High Court by way of reference.	ANALYSIS
 52. Thus, we are under duty to peruse and decide whether the case in the circumstances and the offence committed by the accused falls under the category of rarest of the rare cases to attract death sentence.	ANALYSIS
 53. At the same time the accused has preferred appeal against the judgment in SC No.96/2012.	ANALYSIS
Thus, both the matters related to same case and judgment, both of them are taken up together.	ANALYSIS
 54. Before proceeding to discuss on the order of sentence, we find it necessary to mention Section 303 of IPC which runs as under; "303. Punishment for murder by life- convict  	ANALYSIS
Whoever, being under sentence of imprisonment for life, commits murder, shall be punished with death.	ANALYSIS
 55. Thus, whenever a convict undergoing life imprisonment as punishment in a case where the punishment prescribed was life imprisonment or death sentence, the learned Judge selects to restrict for life imprisonment in case and such convict further commits the offence which is punishable with life imprisonment or death sentence, there was no discretion available to the Court on finding the guilty of such offence, to impose life imprisonment.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, such convict of the first case was liable to be punished with death sentence in case of his guilt of committing the said kind of offence in the subsequent case.	ANALYSIS
 56. However, the said section was declared unconstitutional by the Apex court in the case of Mithu vs. State of Punjab reported in AIR 1983 473. 57.	ANALYSIS
The society has progressed time to time and the right to life has been considered as the one with dignity and the theories of punishment in majority number of nations across the world believing combination of reformative and preventive rather than a cluster of countries which believe in deterrent theory of punishment.	ANALYSIS
58. The society with its dynamic nature of getting reformed from the previous phase to the next witnessed better maturity in consideration of the punishment for the offences.	ANALYSIS
59. In 16th century AD there were more than 300 felonies for which the punishment was death sentence.	ANALYSIS
In 18th century AD the Code of King Hammurabi of Babilonia identified 25 felonies that were punished with death sentence.	ANALYSIS
60. The few of the cases which earmarks the concept of rarest of rare case are Bachansingh Vs. State of Punjab, Billa and Ranga in a case wherein rape and murder of victim was committed and her younger brother who in his tender age showed bravery to stand against the accused was also murdered.	PRE_RELIED
More particularly both of the victims were the children of Officer from Defence guarding the border of motherland.	PRE_RELIED
 61. In the judgment rendered by His Lordship Justice Sarkaria and His Lordship Chandrachud and Justice A.C.Gupta and N.L.Untwualia wherein His Lordship Sarkaria rendered the judgment which was the majority view holding the constitutional validity of the death sentence with reference to Art. 19 of the Constitution.	PRE_RELIED
 62. No doubt that the accused committed a gruesome murder sending harsh message of fear with devastating consequences, the punishment has to be assessed before ordering a person to be hanged until death.	ANALYSIS
 63. Further the preparation in committing offence, terror outfit, criminals who are psychopaths are also the aspects to be seriously considered in the case on hand.	ANALYSIS
The offence, mode of its commission, the object and it fearsome impact on the society are to be considered.	ANALYSIS
 64. No doubt, the manner of murder in this case is wretched, ghastly besides alarming as murder by beheading a child who was helpless from beginning of the offence of kidnapping the till the last moment of life.	ANALYSIS
It did not anticipate such a terroristic end to its life in the hands of a criminal who was known to the family of the child.	ANALYSIS
However, the offence and the manner has to be assessed meticulously.	ANALYSIS
 65. The punishment of death is not prescribed as it was done in case of Shah of Iran and Zulfikar Ali Bhutto who was a Barrister by himself in Pakistan.	ANALYSIS
Even death sentence is certain Islamic country the punishment is carried out by pelting stone till death of the condemned.	ANALYSIS
It cannot be forgotten for a while principles of natural justice and human rights are not only recognized, but also respected in India.	ANALYSIS
66. The notable examples of imposing for the recent time are the cases of Afzal Guru in the matter of attempting to blow the Parliament of India, and the matter of Kasab, a Pakistan national where the acts of the said criminals themselves proved that they require no less than death sentence for their dreaded acts.	ANALYSIS
 67. Thus, in the circumstance the real and the worst punishment is being and will be suffered by the unfortunate parents of the departed soul whose loneliness is by many time worse than solitary confinement.	ANALYSIS
 68. It is they who suffer the shock of the death of their lovely sole male issue and their grief touches the peak of a rock in seeing their beloved a school going child murdered by dastardly act of the accused.	ANALYSIS
 69. However, the offence committed by the accused for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC, in our considered finding does not fall under the category of rarest of the rare cases to attract death sentence.	RATIO
 70. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Machhi Singh vs. State of Punjab reported in 1983 SCC (Cri.) 681 has held as under: "38.	PRE_RELIED
In this background the guidelines indicated in Bachan Singh's case (supra) will have to be culled out and applied to the facts of each individual case where the question of imposing of death sentences arises.	PRE_RELIED
The following propositions emerge from Bachan Singh's case: (i) The extreme penalty of death need not be inflicted except in gravest cases of extreme culpability.	PRE_RELIED
 (ii) Before opting for the death penalty the circumstances of the 'offender' also require to be taken into consideration along with the circumstances of the 'crime'.	PRE_RELIED
 (iii) Life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence is an exception.	PRE_RELIED
In other words death sentence must be imposed only when life imprisonment appears to be an altogether inadequate punishment having regard to the relevant circumstances of the crime, and provided, and only provided, the option to impose sentence of imprisonment for life cannot be conscientiously exercised having regard to the nature and circumstances of the crime and all the relevant circumstances. (iv) A balance sheet of aggravating and mitigating circumstances has to be drawn up and in doing so the mitigating circumstances have to be accorded full weightage and a just balance has to be struck between the aggravating and the mitigating circumstances before the option is exercised."	PRE_RELIED
 71. In the case of Jagmohan Singh vs. The State of U.P., reported in 1973 SCC (Cri.) 169 the Hon'ble Apex Court has held as under: "Constitution of India  Article 19 (1)  Death sentence if violative of Article 19 (1)  Validity of Section 302 IPC  Relevance of decision of U.S.         Supreme Court based on Eighth Amendment and due process of law  Freedom to live if included in Article 19(1)." 72.	PRE_RELIED
We, however, concur with the learned Sessions Judge regarding conviction for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC and restrict the punishment to rigorous imprisonment for life and a fine of Rs.2,50,000/- in default to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of two years.	RATIO
 73. Thus, we are not inclined to grant confirmation for death sentence to the accused under Section 366 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and we hereby reject the reference made by the learned District & Sessions Judge, Vijayapur dated 06.02.2016.	RATIO
At the same time, we confirm the judgment in the said case whereby the accused was convicted for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC by the learned Sessions Judge, Vijayapura.	RATIO
But do no consider the offence as the one falling under rarest of the rare cases and thus restrict the punishment to life imprisonment.	RATIO
 74. Hence, we proceed to pass the following: ORDER	RPC
The appeal preferred under Section 374(2) of Cr.P.C. by the appellant-accused against the judgment in S.C.No.96/2012 dated 06.02.2016 is hereby partly allowed.	RPC
However, the order of conviction is confirmed and the accused is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs.2,50,000/- in default to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of two years.	RPC
The appeal against the order of convicting and sentencing the accused for the offence punishable under Section 364 IPC is hereby dismissed.	RPC
 The reference made by the learned I Additional Sessions Judge, Vijaypur seeking confirmation of the death sentence, is hereby rejected. 	RPC
The learned Sessions Judge is hereby directed to secure the accused from the concerned Jail where he is lodged and issue necessary warrant of conviction.	RPC
 Sd/- JUDGE Sd/- JUDGE NSP	NONE
