IN THE COURT OF THE ASSISTANT SESSIONS JUDGE : BONAIPresent :  Shri Bisworanjan Behera, LL.B.,PGDLL,           	PREAMBLE
Asst. Sessions Judge, Bonai.	PREAMBLE
           Dated, this the 28th day of July, 2016           Sessions Trial No. 20/16 of 2016Arising out of G.R. Case No. 641 of 2010 corresponding to Koira PS.	PREAMBLE
Case No. 120 dated 19.12.2010, committed to the court of Addl.Sessions Judge, Bonai by the court of S.D.J.M, Bonai andsubsequently transferred to this court for disposal according to law.	PREAMBLE
State of Odisha                      ...  ... Prosecution.	PREAMBLE
                             versusSantosh Munda@ Gurkha, aged about 28 years, Son of GanguramMunda of village Barua Hutting, P.S. Barbil, DistKeonjhar.	PREAMBLE
...Accused Persons .	PREAMBLE
Appearances:	PREAMBLE
: Shri T.K. Sahoo, Addl.P.P.	PREAMBLE
For the ProsecutionFor the Defence              : Shri B.K. Dash & Associates,                              Defence Counsel, Bonai.Date of Argument             : 16th day of July, 2016Date of Judgment             : 28th day of July, 2016OFFENCES PUNISHABLE UNDER SECTION 395 OF THE INDIAN           PENAL CODE & UNDER SECTION 25/27 OF ARMS                                               ACT.Status of the Accused Persons: Accused is under judicial custody                                                   and present today.                                       J U D G M E N T	PREAMBLE
 The above named accused stands charged for the offence punishable u/s. 395 of the Indian Penal Code (hereinafter in short as "IPC") along with u/s 25/27 of Arms Act.	FAC
2. The Prosecution story as per First Information Report is that: One Bijaya Kumar Patra lodged a written report before the Officer in Charge, Koira P.S alleging that on 18.12.2010 at about 6.50 PM about 18 to 20 persons being armed with gun entered into his house and broke the suit cases and boxes.	FAC
They also damaged the furnitures of his house.	FAC
They have looted cash of Rs. 4,00,000/ and gold ornaments.	FAC
When his sisterinlaw Jyosna Rani Patra opposed to it, they assaulted her and snatched her gold chain.	FAC
They have also taken away his 12 bore licenced gun of the informant along with 12 cartridge and his licence.	FAC
So also they have taken four number of mobile from his house.	FAC
At the time of leaving the house they handed over a letter on Maoist pad in which they have demanded to pay Rs.2,00,000/ within the period of 24 hours.	FAC
 On receipt of the above written report Koira P.S. Case No. 120 Dtd. 19.12..2010 has been registered u/s. 395 of the Indian Penal Code along with u/s 25/27 of Arms Act.	FAC
After closure of the investigation the charge sheet is submitted against the above named accused along with 9 others under the aforesaid offences.	FAC
Accordingly, the cognizance has been taken by the court of SDJM, Bonai and thereafter the case was committed to the court of Additional Sessions Judge, Bonai.	FAC
Subsequently this case is transferred to this court for trial after split up against this accused.	FAC
 3.  The plea of the defence is as usual one of complete innocence and false implication in this case.	ANALYSIS
4. The following points are to be determined in this case: I.	ISSUE
Whether on 18.12.2010 at about 6.50 PM at Ganua, the accused along with others committed dacoity of cash of Rs. 4,00,000/, gold ornaments, one pistol, 12 nos of cartridge and 7 nos of mobile phones from the house of the informant.	ISSUE
    II.	ISSUE
Whether on the relevant date, time and place, the accused along with others were found carrying gun for which they did not hold licence issued in accordance with the provision of the Arms Act, 1959 and rules made thereunder..	ISSUE
 III.	ISSUE
Whether on the relevant date, time and place, The accused along with others were carrying fire arms like guns for unlawful purpose, i.e for commission of dacoity. 5.	ISSUE
In order to prove this case, the prosecution has examined all total six numbers of witnesses and marked the documents as Ext.1 and Ext.1/1.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, neither any witness is examined nor any document is marked from the side of the defence.	ANALYSIS
Out of the prosecution witnesses P.W.1 is the informant.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2, P.W.3, P.W.4, P.W.5 and P.W.6 are the father, younger brother, mother, wife and sisterin law of the informant.	ANALYSIS
6. After thoroughly analysing the evidence on record, it is observed that the informant(P.W.4) has stated that he does not know the accused Santosh Munda who is standing in the dock.	ANALYSIS
He has further stated that on 18.12.2010 at about 6.30 PM while he was at home, four to five unknown masked persons being armed with gun entered into his house and taken away cash of Rs. 4,00,000/ and gold ornament weighing about 10 varis from his house.	ANALYSIS
He has further deposed that they assaulted and gave a Maoist letter to him and also they have taken way four cell phones from his house.	ANALYSIS
On next day morning he lodged the FIR at P.S. On his cross examination, he has stated that all the above persons have wrapped their faces by cloth and the accused who is standing in the dock was not present there at the relevant time.	ANALYSIS
7. P.W.2 is the father of the informant who has stated that at the relevant time he was watching TV at his house and about 10 to 12 unknown masked persons entered into their house being armed with gun and other 10 persons standing outside their house.	ANALYSIS
He has further deposed that, they have broken their boxes, almirahs and taken away cash of Rs. 4,00,000/ and 150 gm of gold ornaments.	ANALYSIS
He has further deposed that they have also taken the licenced gun of the the informant.	ANALYSIS
In his cross examination, he has stated that all the culprits have wrapped their faces by cloth.	ANALYSIS
8. P.W.3 who is the younger brother of the informant has stated that, he has not seen the accused Santosh Munda who is standing in the dock and at the relevant time he was absent from his house and on return he heard from his family members that number of persons entered into their house and took away cash of Rs.4,00,000/, 10 to 12 varis of gold and his identity card.	ANALYSIS
9. P.W.4 is the mother of the informant has stated that, she has not seen the accused prior to her examination and the occurrence took place four years back inside their house.	ANALYSIS
She further deposed that at the relevant time she has not seen the occurrence and she was watching TV in another room.	ANALYSIS
10. The wife of the informant(P.W.5) has stated that at the relevant time she was in a separate room and her husband informed her that some persons entered into their house and took away cash of Rs.4,00,000/ and gold ornaments weighing about 10 varis.	ANALYSIS
11. P.W.6 is the wife of the younger brother of the informant.	ANALYSIS
She has stated that at the relevant time while she was sitting inside her room at a sudden ten to fifteen persons being wrapped on their faces entered into her house.	ANALYSIS
She further deposed that they were armed with gun, pistol and sword and they snatched away her gold chain from her neck and they have also taken away about 10 varis of gold ornaments and cash of Rs. 4,00,000/ from their house.	ANALYSIS
She further deposed that they slapped her during the occurrence.	ANALYSIS
In her cross examination she has stated that she cannot identify anyone as they have wrapped their faces.	ANALYSIS
12. It is needless to say that in a criminal trial, at very inception the prosecution is required to establish the complicity and involvement of the accused in terms of the charge he is facing under the trial.	ANALYSIS
Once his complicity is established, the prosecution shall prove the alleged overt act or omission committed by the accused by adducing legal evidence to fix the criminal liability on the accused.	ANALYSIS
Where primafacie complicity of the accused is established, a court shall make a judicial scrutiny to access whether the proved overt acts committed by the accused attracts the penal provision and declares the penal liability on the accused in terms of charge.	ANALYSIS
Alternatively it can be said complicity can only be established by proving the "actus reus" of the accused.	ANALYSIS
On analysing the evidence in the present case at hand, it is found that none of the prosecution witness including the informant and injured has whispered a single word showing the complicity of the present accused in connection with this case.	ANALYSIS
When the prosecution evidence fails to establish the primafacie complicity of the accused in the present case, it was a futile exercise to make further judicial investigation of the evidence adduced on behalf of the prosecution to find out their guilty in terms of the charge.	ANALYSIS
13. In this case at hand all the prosecution witnesses have stated that some unknown persons entered into their house being armed with gun and taken away cash of Rs. 4,00,000/ and gold ornaments.	ANALYSIS
None of the prosecution witness has stated the involvement of the present accused into the alleged crime.	ANALYSIS
Even they have categorically stated that they do not know the present accused who was standing in the dock during course of their examination.	ANALYSIS
Though the FIR has been proved by the informant as Ext.1 in this case.	ANALYSIS
The contents of the same have not been proved by him.	ANALYSIS
The law is fairly well settled that, FIR is not a substantive piece of evidence and the same can only be used for the purpose of corroboration or contradiction to the maker thereof.	ANALYSIS
14. Hence, basing on the above reason, this court come to irresistible conclusion that the prosecution is utterly failed to bring home the charges against the present accused.	RATIO
As such he is entitled to clean acquittal.	RATIO
In the result, I found the present accused is not guilty for the commission of offence u/s 395 of IPC and 25/27 of Arms Act and he is acquitted therefrom as per section 235(1) of Cr.P.C.	RPC
He be set at liberty forthwith.	RPC
 The seized articles if any be destroyed four months after the expiry of the appeal period and in case of appeal the same be disposed as per the order of the Hon'ble Appellate Court.	RPC
Enter this case as a mistake of facts for the statistical purpose.	RPC
Pronounced the judgment in the open court and given under my signature and seal of this court on this the 28th day of July, 2016.	NONE
Typed to my dictation in office computer and corrected by me Asst. Sessions Judge, Bonai.	NONE
          Asst. Sessions Judge, Bonai.	NONE
       28.07.2016	NONE
28.07.2016	NONE
List of Prosecution witnesses: P.W.1    Bijay Kumar Patra P.W.2    Kulamani Patra P.W.3    Tapan Kumar Patra P.W.4    Smt. Kishorilata Patra P.W.5    Smt. Bhagabati Patra P.W.6    Jyotshnarani Patra.	NONE
List of Defence Witnesses: Nil. List of Exts. marked for Prosecution: Ext.1    FIR Ext.1/1  Signature of P.W.1 List of Exts. marked for Defence: Nil. List of material objects, if any Nil. Asst. Sessions Judge,Bonai.                                                               28.07.2016	NONE
