IN THE COURT OF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE FIRST CLASS,              ROURKELA, DISTRICT: SUNDARGARH.Present:          Smt. Neesha Samal, L.L.M.,          J.M.F.C., Rourkela.	PREAMBLE
          GR Case No. 1420/2001          Trial No. /2016State	PREAMBLE
.... Prosecution                                 -vrs-Etuari Badaik, aged about 56 years,Wife of Bhaktu Badaik, resident ofKabi Basti, Purunapani, P.S. Hatibari,Dist: Sundargarh.                                        ... Accused Person.Counsel for the Prosecution             : Sri Santosh Kumar Nayak,                                          APP, Rourkela.Counsel for the Dedfence                : Sri S.L.Badaik, Advocate,                                          Rourkela.          Date of Argument: 07.12.2016          Date of Judgment: 17.12.2016       OFFENCE U/S 47(a) OF BIHAR AND ORISSA EXCISE ACT.	PREAMBLE
                                      JUDGMENT 	PREAMBLE
The above named accused faces trial for having committed the offence U/s. 47(a) of Bihar and Orissa Excise Act.	FAC
2. Brief facts of the case is that: On 22.8.2001, the SI Judhistir Sahoo, O.I.C., Hatibari P.S. reported in writing that on that day he along with his staff were conducting excise raid in different places of Purunapani area, when he received information from reliable sources that one lady namely Etuari Badaik of Kabi Basti, Purunapani village is selling liquor in her house unauthorisedly.	FAC
On this information he along with his staff proceeded to conduct raid in her house and recovered I.D.liquor kept in a green jerrican of about 5 liters.	FAC
The accused Etuari Badaik failed to produce any licence or authority for possession of the I.D. liquor and hence, the same was seized in presence of villagers Mangru Ganju and Raghunath Ganju, seizure list was prepared and she was arrested and on production of local bailor she was released on bail and thereafter, the matter was reported and the seized liquor was taken to P.S.	FAC
Basing on this report, the OIC registered Hatibari P.S. Case No.36 dated 22.8.2001 U/s 47(a) of Bihar and Orissa Excise Act and directed himself to take up investigation of the case.	FAC
During course of investigation, he again visited the spot, examined the witnesses, sent the sample liquor of 180 ml. kept in a cleaned dry bottle for chemical examination to Scientific Officer, D.F.S.L., Rourkela who opined that the sample liquid contained 20% V/V ethyl clcohol.	FAC
After completion of investigation the I.O. submitted charge sheet against the accused vide C.S. No.36 dated 10.9.2001 U/s 47(a) of Bihar and Orissa Excise Act to face her trial in the Court of law.	FAC
Hence, this case.	FAC
3. The plea of the accused is one of complete denial and false implication in this case.	FAC
4. The point for determination in this case is: (i) Whether on 22.8.2001 at about 11.15 A.M., the accused was found in exclusive and conscious possession of 5 liters of I.D. Liquor kept in a green plastic jerrican in her house at Kabi Basti, Purunapani without any licence or authority ?        (ii) Whether the seized liquor was I.D. liquor or not ?	ISSUE
 5. In order to substantiate the charges leveled against the accused, the prosecution has examined 3 witnesses.	ANALYSIS
Manguru Ganju as P.W.1.	ANALYSIS
He identified his signature on the property seizure memo vide Ext.1.	ANALYSIS
Raghu Ganju as P.W.2.	ANALYSIS
He identified his signature on the property seizure memo vide Ext.1/1.	ANALYSIS
Muni Badaik as P.W.3.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, the accused has not adduced any oral or documentary evidence on his behalf.	ANALYSIS
 6. In this case, P.W.1 and P.W.2 are the independent local witnesses of the Purunapani village of Kabi Basti who are co-villagers of the accused and as per the FIR, P.Ws 1 and 2 are seizure witnesses in presence of whom the liquor was seized from the possession of the accused in her house and the property seizure memo was prepared in their presence.	ANALYSIS
But both P.Ws 1 and 2 have stated in their evidence that they do not know the accused and nothing was seized in their presence.	ANALYSIS
Neither they were examined by the I.O. in connection with this case and they were asked to sign on a blank piece of paper by the police.	ANALYSIS
They identified their signatures on the property seizure memo, but could not prove the factum of seizure in any manner.	ANALYSIS
 P.W.3 is the Home Guard who accompanied the informant S.I. Judhistir Sahoo and other staffs in the patrolling duty on 22.8.2001.	ANALYSIS
She deposed that on that day she along with the informant and other staffs went on patrolling duty to Kabi Basti, Purunapani under Hatibari P.S. and there S.I. received credible information that Etuari Badaik, the accused was selling liquor in her house.	ANALYSIS
So, they rushed to the spot, they saw her selling country made liquor in a black jerrican in her veranda.	ANALYSIS
Her house was searched and the liquor was seized from her possession as she failed to produce any documents in support of the possession of liquor and hence, a property seizure memo was prepared in presence of the witnesses in respect of 5 liters of seized I.D. liquor.	ANALYSIS
7. The prosecution has not examined the informant who is also the I.O. in this case and the scriber of the FIR.	ANALYSIS
The Scientific Officer, DFSL, Rourkela has also not been examined by the prosecution due to which neither the FIR nor the chemical examination report as given by the Scientific Officer, DFSL, Rourkela could be proved in this case.	ANALYSIS
The contents of the FIR have been narrated by P.W.3 who was part of the patrolling duty on that day.	ANALYSIS
But the factum of seizure could not be produced due to non-support of the independent seizure witnesses i.e. P.Ws 1 and 2.	ANALYSIS
Hence, in this case neither the FIR nor the seizure nor the chemical examination report could be proved by the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
This being an year old case of the year 2001, the prosecution deemed it fit to close its evidence as the case was lingering long for the evidence of the informant/I.O. and the scientific Officer who are not available to depose in this case.	ANALYSIS
Hence, the prosecution evidence was closed.	ANALYSIS
There being no evidence on record with regard to any proof that the liquor was seized from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused and that the seized liquor was I.D. liquor, none of the ingredients of the section 47(a) of Bihar and Orissa Excise Act could be satisfy only with the evidence of P.W.3.	RATIO
Hence, the accused is found not guilty of committing the offence U/s 47(a) of Bihar and Orissa Excise Act and she is acquitted U/s 248(1) Cr.P.C.	RPC
The accused be set at liberty.	RPC
Her bail bond stands cancelled and surety be discharged.	RPC
 The seized articles, if any, be destroyed four months after the appeal period is over if there be no appeal and in the event of appeal, the same be subjected to the order of the Appellate Court.	RPC
Enter this case as mistake of fact for statistical purpose.	RPC
       Judgment is dictated and corrected by me, pronounced in the open court on this the 17th day of December, 2016 under my signature and seal of the Court.	NONE
 Judicial Magistrate First Class, Rourkela.	NONE
List of prosecution witness.	NONE
 P.W.1  Mangru Ganju.	NONE
 P.W.2  Raghu Ganju. P.W.3  Muni Badaik.	NONE
List of defence witnesses.	NONE
 N i l. 	NONE
List of exhibit marked on behalf of prosecution.	NONE
 Ext.1  Signature of P.W.1 on seizure list. Ext.2  Signature of P.W.2 on seizure list.	NONE
List of exhibit marked on behalf of defence.	NONE
                N i l. Judicial Magistrate First Class, Rourkela.	NONE
