          IN THE COURT OF THE SUB:DIVISIONAL JUDICIAL	PREAMBLE
MAGISTRATE:                                            B O N A IPresent : Smt. Sucheta Krupalini, B.A.LL.B.(Hons)                  S.D.J.M.,BonaiDate of Argument : 08.04.2016Date of Judgment : 08.04.2016G.R. Case No. 169/2010Trial No. 271/11S T A T E                                    -Versus-Smt. Janhi Mahanta,aged about 36 yearsW/O. Raji Mahanta, Vill Madhupur, P.S LahunipadaDist:Sundargarh                                                  ...AccusedCounsel for the Prosecution : Sri P.S. Mishra, APP, BonaiCounsel for the Accused  : Sri D.K.Sahu & his Associates,                         Advocates ,BonaiJ U D G M E N T	PREAMBLE
 Offence Under Section 47(a) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act- 1915	NONE
The accused named above stands charged U/S.47 (a) of The Bihar and Orissa Excise Act for possessing unauthorized liquor.	NONE
(hereinafter called B&O Excise Act).	NONE
 2. The Prosecution Case in short is as follows : On dtd. 30.03.2010, S.I. Bindu Basini Biswal of Lahunipada Police Station (hereinafter called the informant ) was performing morning patrolling duty along with police staff near village Madhupur.	FAC
The informant got an information from a reliable source that there is illegal preparation and selling of I.D liquor is going on in village Madhupur.	FAC
After getting this information the informant had collected two local gentries and immediately rushed to the spot and conducted raid in the house of one Janhi Mohanta, W/O. Raji Mahanta(hereinafter called the accused).	FAC
The informant had recovered 4(four) liters of country made mahua liquor which was kept in a white colour plastic jerrican on the verandah of the accused.	FAC
On demand the accused failed to produce any document in her favour of possession of mahua liquor.	FAC
So, the informant had seized four liters of mahua liquor from the possession of accused in presence of witnesses and prepared the seizure list and took the signature of witnesses on the seizure list.	FAC
The informant had arrested the accused as she has committed an offence U/S. 47(a) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act after explaining her the grounds of her arrest and intimating her family members.	FAC
Then the informant had lodged FIR before Lahunipada Police Station which was registered as Lahunipada P.S case No.50 dtd.30.3.2010 U/S. 47(a) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act.	FAC
Basing upon the written report the law was set into motion.	FAC
The I.O had examined the informant and all available witnesses and after completion of investigation had submitted charge sheet against the accused for committing an offence U/S.47(a) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act.	FAC
Hence, this case.	FAC
3. The plea of the accused is one of outright denial and of false implication.	FAC
4. The point for determination of this case are as follows; Whether on dt. 30.03.2010 at morning one white colour plastic jerrican containing 4(four) liters of country made mahua liquor was recovered and seized from the house of the accused and the accused has        exclusive and conscious possession over the searched house. ?	ISSUE
 5. To prove its case prosecution has examined all together three witnesses of whom P.W.1 is the informant, P.W.2 is the Investigating Officer, P.W.3 is the seizure witnesses.	ANALYSIS
Prosecution has declined to examine the rest of the charge sheeted witnesses as their evidence shall not improve the case of the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand defence has examined none.	ANALYSIS
 6. P.W.1 is the informant had deposed in her evidence that on dtd.30.3.2010 she along with other staffs were conducting patrolling duty at Lahunipada area and on getting information about illegal selling of liquor they proceeded to the village Madhupur.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 had further deposed in her evidence that the accused was selling liquor on her verandah and the accused had no licence.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 had further deposed in her evidence that she had seized a white colour plastic jerrican containing 4(four) liters of I.D liquor from the house of the accused and prepared the seizure list.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 had admitted the seizure list prepared by her as Ext-1 and Ext-1/1 is her signature thereon.	ANALYSIS
P.W.1 had further contended in her evidence that she brought the seized article to the police station and lodged FI.R.P.W.1 had admitted the FIR lodged by her as Ext-2 and Ext-2/1 is her signature thereon. 6.1 P.W.2 is the Investigating Officer had deposed in his evidence that on dtd. 30.03.2010 he was working as S.I at Lahunipada P.S.P.W.2 had further deposed in his evidence that on the direction of police he had took the charge of investigation of this case and admitted endorsement of IIC as Ext-2/2.	ANALYSIS
P.W.2 had further mentioned in his evidence during the investigation he had visited the spot, examined the witnesses and sent the sample of seized liquid for chemical examination.	ANALYSIS
It is in the evidence of P.W.2 that after completion of investigation he had submitted charge sheet against the accused U/S. 47(a) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act.	ANALYSIS
 6.2 P.W.3 is the seizure witness had deposed in his evidence that he does not know anything regarding this case and at the instance of I.O he had only put his signature. 7. To prove an offence U/s. 47(a) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act the prosecution must prove the fact that excise articles has been seized from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.	ANALYSIS
 7.1 P.W.1 is the informant and P.W.2 is the I.O were silent regarding the fact that the searched house belongs to the accused or the accused has exclusive and conscious possession over the searched house. Ext-2 is the FIR which reveals that 4(four) liters of country made liquor in white colour plastic jerrican on the verandah of the house of the accused was recovered.	ANALYSIS
But P.W.1 had deposed in her evidence that the accused was selling liquor on her verandah and she had seized a white colour plastic jerrican containing 4(four) liter of I.D liquor.	ANALYSIS
 8. P.W.2 had admitted that he had sent the sample and seized liquid for chemical examination but he had not mentioned the name of the person by whom he had sent the sample liquid for chemical examination to D.F.S.L..	ANALYSIS
P.W.2 had further deposed in his evidence that he had not mentioned in the record about the specific seal by which he had sealed the sample liquor.	ANALYSIS
The seized article was also not produced in the Court during the trial to lend assurance as to factum of search and seizure.	ANALYSIS
 9. It is the cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence that prosecution has to prove its case beyond all reasonable doubt.	RATIO
But in the case in hand prosecution has failed to do.	RATIO
In the absence of cogent, clear, and consistent evidence it can be safely concluded that prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/S. 47(a) of Bihar & Orissa Excise Act against the accused.	RATIO
In the result, I find that the accused is not guilty for committing offence punishable U/S.47 (a) of the Bihar and Orissa Excise Act and is acquitted there from as per the provision of section 248 (1) Cr. P. C.	RPC
The bail bond of the accused be cancelled.	RPC
 S.D.J..M.B O N A I 10.	NONE
The seized articles shall be destroyed after expiry of four months of the period of limitation of appeal, if no appeal is preferred.	RPC
In case of appeal, subject to the order of the Appellate Court.	RPC
Enter this case as "Mistake of fact".	RPC
Status of the accused:-On Bail.	NONE
Not present today in the Court.	NONE
 S.D.J..M.B O N A I	NONE
This judgment is typed, corrected and pronounced by me in open Court today i.e. the 8th April -2016 given under my hand and seal of this Court.	NONE
S.D.J.M., B O N A I	NONE
List of P.Ws Examined P.W.1  Bindu Basini Biswal P.W.2         Umakanta Nayak P.W.3         	NONE
Anadi Mahanta List of D.Ws Examined N IL List of Exts marked on behalf of Prosecution Ext-1         Signature of P.W.1 on Seizure list Ext-1/1 Signature of P.W.1 Ext-2         F.I.R Ext-2/1 Signature of P.w.1 Ext-2/2 Endorsement of IIC on E xt-2 List of Exts marked on behalf of Defence N I L List of Material Object s N I L                                      S.D.J.M. B O N A I	NONE
