PETITIONER:SARVESHWAR PRASAD SHARMA    Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF MADHYA PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT26/09/1977BENCH:GOSWAMI, P.K.BENCH:GOSWAMI, P.K.SINGH, JASWANTCITATION:1977 AIR 2423              1978 SCR  (1) 560                          (193)1977 SCC (4) 596CITATOR INFO :RF         1979 SC 916ACT:Sentence--Sentence of death, special reasons as requiredunder s. 354(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code (Act If of1974), 1973 recorded by the Sessions and the High Court-Interference by the Supreme Court under Art. 136 only inspecial cases.HEADNOTE:The appellant, a qualified medical practitioner, wasconvicted for nine gruesome, murders of his friend, thelatter's wife, aged parents, two sons and three daughters ofthe age of 16, 13, 8, 5 and 3 respectively, entirely oncircumstantial evidence and was sentenced to death.	PREAMBLE
Theentire family was exterminated due to greed for cash,ornaments and other valuables.	PREAMBLE
The Sessions and the HighCourt gave convincing and special reasons for passing thedeath sentence.	PREAMBLE
Dismissing the special leave which is limited to thequestion of sentence, the Court,HELD : Law directs the course of the court.	PREAMBLE
After enactmentof the Criminal Procedure Code in 1973 (Act 2 of 1974), thejudgment in a murder case "shall state the special reasons"for a sentence of death, only in special cases withrecording of reasons so that these may be examined bysuperior courts.	PREAMBLE
None of the guidelines indicated by thiscourt in several decisions in this is problem area of lifeand death as a result of judicial verdict can be cut and drynor exhaustive.	PREAMBLE
Each case will depend upon the totality ofthe facts and circumstances and other matters revealed.	PREAMBLE
Inthe instant case the horrid enormity of the crime with adeliberate motive of wrongful gain cannot be minimised whenconsidering the appropriate sentence.	PREAMBLE
The special reasonsmandated under the law are duly recorded by both the HighCourt and the Trial Court and those are adequate to justifythe sentence of death in these cruet and diabolical murders[561 E-F, 562 F]JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE
 CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No. 342 of 1971, Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated 13-4-77 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 37/77 and Death Reference No. 1/77.	NONE
Mohan Behari Lal (amicus curiae) for the Appellant.	NONE
I. N. Shroff for the Respondent.	NONE
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by GOSWAMI, J.	NONE
We have granted special leave in this case limited to the question of sentence and heard the learned counsel, appearing as amicus curiae and also for the State.	NONE
These are gruesome murders wiping out all entire family of nine persons including two infants.	FAC
The accused (31), Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (B.A.M.S.), a qualified medical practitioner, was a close friend of one of the deceased, Ram Swaroop (40), who was an Upper Division Clerk in the Madhya Pradesh Girls N.C. Battalion at Gwalior.	FAC
Theaccused lived only about a furlong away from the deceased.	FAC
Deceased Ram Swaroop used to practice Homeopathy as his hobby.	FAC
There was thus a certain degree of common interest between the accused and deceased Ram Swaroop.	FAC
Ram Swaroop had his parents, aged 60 years, his wife (35), their two sons and three daughters of the age of 16, 13, 8, 5 and 3 respectively.	FAC
As stated earlier, the entire family was exterminated.	FAC
Cash, ornaments and other valuables were also removed at the same time.	FAC
Murder was committed on the night of 4th July, 1976 and the dead bodies were locked up inside the room and the house was locked from outside.	FAC
On 6th July foul. smell was emitted from the closed house and the police was informed.	FAC
The house was broken open by the police and the nine dead bodies were recovered.	FAC
There is no direct evidence as to who actually committed the crimp, or even whether there was more than one person taking part in this dastardly crime.	FAC
The accused stood convicted entirely on circumstantial evidence and his conviction is, now beyond question.	FAC
We have heard learned counsel of both sides on the question of sentence.	NONE
The recent benign direction of the penal law is towards life sentence, as a rule, and death as an exception awarding of which must be accompanied by recorded reasons.	ANALYSIS
This Court has in several decisions indicated guidelines in this problem area of life and death as a result of judicial verdict but none of these guidelines can be cut and dry nor exhaustive.	ANALYSIS
Each case will depend upon the totality of the facts, circumstances and other matters revealed.	ANALYSIS
Law directs the course of the court.	ANALYSIS
After, enactment of the Criminal Procedure Code in 1973 (Act 2 of 1974), the judgment in a murder case "shall state the special reasons"for a sentence of death.	ANALYSIS
That is to say, there will be sentence of death only in special cases with recording of reasons so that these may be examined by superior courts.	ANALYSIS
The trial court dealing with the question of sentence observed as follows : - "Even beasts do not show unfaithfulness but this case is a shining example of the heinous unfaithfulness.	ANALYSIS
Firstly to commit nine murders and that to(, of small children committed by inflicting more than one injury which is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature and therefore gravity of the offence has surpassed its last limit due to which it would be proper to say that the acts of accused are not only beastly but ghastly injoined with extreme greediness.	ANALYSIS
There being 12-930SCI/77                         total lack of extenuating circumstances the accused deserves to be punished with extreme penalty without hesitation".                         	ANALYSIS
The High Court dealing with the same question made the following observation :- "The accused was a trusted friend of the deceased Rain Swaroop.	ANALYSIS
But, for achievement of Ms vicious object to relieve him of his cash and valuables he not only killed Ram Swaroop but also exterminated his whole family including his aged parents, his wife and five children two of whom were infants aged five years and three years respectively.	ANALYSIS
He com- mitted these blood-chilling murders of the nine innocent persons for monetary gain and to destroy. the evidence of the crime he had committed.	ANALYSIS
It is difficult to find words strong enough to condemn these gruesome and dastardly murders.	ANALYSIS
Ironically the accused chose not to spare even the two infant daughters of Ram Swaroop who dearly used to address him as `Dr. Chacha' and were incapable of giving evidence even if they had been left alive.	ANALYSIS
The tragedy has few parallels	ANALYSIS
The accused was neither demented nor mentally sick.	ANALYSIS
There are absolutely no extenuating circumstances for passing a lesser sentence.	ANALYSIS
On the other hand, the case, in our opinion, is eminently fit for imposing the extreme penalty of law".	ANALYSIS
It is submitted that the accused was financially in straits with wife and two small children and this should be taken into consideration to merit clemency for the lesser sentence.	RATIO
These grounds had also been urged earlier before the trial court, but the horrid enormity of the crime with a deliberate motive of wrongful gain cannot be minimised when considering the appropriate sentence.	RATIO
We agree with the courts below that there are no extenuating circumstances to justify the lesser penalty.	RATIO
The special reasons mandated under the law are duly recorded by both the High Court and the trial court and we are not in a position to say that those are inadequate to justify the sentence of death in these cruel and diabolical murders.	RATIO
The appeal is accordingly dismissed.	RPC
S.R.Appeal dismissed.	NONE
