PETITIONER:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, ANDHRA PRADESHVs.RESPONDENT:T.N. ARVINDA REDDYDATE OF JUDGMENT05/10/1979BENCH:KRISHNAIYER, V.R.BENCH:KRISHNAIYER, V.R.DESAI, D.A.CITATION:            1980 SCR (1) 872 1980 AIR 96 1979 SCC (4) 421ACT:         Income-tax Act-1961 Section 54(1)-Scope of-Words &Phrases-Purchase-Meaning of.HEADNOTE:         The respondent sold his house at a price sufficient toattract capital gins but he pre-empted the demand of tax byacquiring the common house from his brothers for aconsideration of Rs 30,000/- each through separate releasedeeds.	PREAMBLE
On behalf of the Petitioner, it was contended thatrelease deeds by sharers in favour of one of them amounts topurchase within the meaning of s. 54 (1) of the Act.	PREAMBLE
TheHigh Court having held it is, the Revenue came by way ofSpecial Leave.         Dismissing the Petition,^         	PREAMBLE
HELD: Each release is a transfer of the releaser'sshare for consideration to the release.	PREAMBLE
In plain English,the transferee purchases the share of each of his brothersfor a price.	PREAMBLE
Had this been taken from non-fraternal ownersof shares or from one stranger owner, plain spoken peoplewould have called it a purchase.	PREAMBLE
The reason is supported bydecision in Hobshaw Brothers Ltd. v. Mayer, [1956(3) AER 833and 835] that purchase primarily means acquisition for moneypaid, not adjusted.	PREAMBLE
There is no reason to divorce theordinary meaning of the word 'purchase' as buying for priceor equivalent of price by payment in kind or adjustmenttowards an old debt or for other monetary consideration fromthe legal meaning of that word in s. 54(1) of the Act.	PREAMBLE
[873B-D]JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE
         CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 1557 of 1979.	NONE
From the Judgment and Order dated 1-2-1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Case Referred No. 114 of 1976.	NONE
         Soli J. Sorabji, Solicitor General and Miss A. Subhashini for the petitioner.         S.T. Desai, K. J. John and A. K. Verma for the Respondent.	NONE
 The order of the Court was delivered by KRISHNA IYER, J. -We regard the single point, persuasively presented by the learned Solicitor General on behalf of the petitioner (The Commissioner of Income Tax, Andhra Pradesh), as deserving of a speaking order, although in dissent, since the question may arise again and needs to be silenced.	NONE
        Briefly, the facts.	FAC
Four brothers, members of a coparcenery, partitioned their family properties, leaving in common a large house in the occupation of their mother.	FAC
The eldest, who is respondent before us, sold his own house at a price sufficient to attract handsome capital gains tax, but he pre-empted the demand for tax by acquiring the common house from his three brothers who executed three release ,, deeds for a consideration of Rs. 30,000/- each, adjusted towards the extra share (Jeshtabhaga) agreed to be given to the eldest by the next three.	FAC
It is common ground that if these release deeds did .. amount to purchase of the house, s. 54(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, would save the respondent from exigibility to tax.	ANALYSIS
So the short question, neatly identified by the learned Solicitor General is whether release deeds by sharers in favour of one of them whereby the joint ownership of all became separate ownership of one amount to purchase of house property within the meaning of s. 54(1) of the Act.	ISSUE
The High Court has held it is and we concur.	ANALYSIS
Undoubtedly, each , release, in these circumstances, is a transfer of the releaser's share for consideration to the release.	ANALYSIS
In plain English, the transferee purchases the share of each of his brothers.	ANALYSIS
It is for a price of i Rs. 30,000/- each.	ANALYSIS
Had this been taken from non-fraternal owners of shares or from one stranger- owner, plain-spoken people would have called it a purchase.	ANALYSIS
Why, then, should legalist be allowed to play this linguistic distortion.	ANALYSIS
The reason, supposedly supported by an English decision, is that purchase primarily means acquisition for money paid, not adjusted Upjohn, J. in Habshaw Brothers Ltd. v. Mayer	PRE_RELIED
has circumspectly said : There are no doubt to be found authorities and statutes which have extended that meaning.	PRE_RELIED
In Mr. T.         Cyprian Williams book, the Contract of Sale of Land, at p. 3 he says: "'sale', in the strict and primary sense of the word, 'means' an agreement for the conveyance of property for a price in money; but the word 'sale' may be used in law in a wider sense and so applied to the conveyance of land for a price consisting wholly or partly of money's worth other than the conveyance of some other land." 	PRE_RELIED
Apparently he considered that a sale for something other than money can in a wider sense be properly described as a sale.	ANALYSIS
We agree.	ANALYSIS
The signification of a word of plural semantic shades may, in a given text, depend on the pressure of the context or other indicia.	ANALYSIS
Absent such compelling mutation of sense, the speech of the lay is also the language of the law.	ANALYSIS
        We find no reason to divorce the ordinary meaning of the word 'purchase' as buying for a price or equivalent of price by payment ill kind or adjustment towards an old debt or for other monetary consideration from the legal meaning of that word in Sec. 54 (1).	RATIO
If you sell your house and make a profit, pay Caesar what is due to him.	ANALYSIS
But if you buy or build another subject to the conditions of Sec. 54(1) you are exempt.	ANALYSIS
The purpose is plain; the symmetry is simple, the language is plain.	ANALYSIS
Why mutilate the meaning by lexical legalism.	ANALYSIS
We see no stress in the section on 'cash and carry'.	ANALYSIS
The point pressed must, therefore, be negatived.	ANALYSIS
We have declined lo hear Sri S. T. Desai's artillery fire although he was armed cap a pie with Mitakshara lore and law.	ANALYSIS
A point of suffocating scholarship sometimes arrives in court when one nostaligically remembers the escapist verse: "Where ignorance is bliss, "Tis folly to be wise."	ANALYSIS
Amen !	ANALYSIS
A passing reference to avoidance and evasion of tax was made at the bar, a dubious refinement of a dated legal culture sanctified, though, by judicial dicta.	ANALYSIS
The court is not the mint of virtue and one day in our Welfare State geared to Social Justice, this clever concept of 'avoidance' against 'evasion' may have to be exposed.	ANALYSIS
Enough unto the day is the evil thereof.	ANALYSIS
N.K.A. Petition dismissed.	NONE
