$~56*IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI%                                      Judgment delivered on: 17.01.2017+        W.P.(C) 8374/2016SELECT INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LIMITED                                ..... Petitioner                             versusCOMMISSIONER, VALUE ADDED  TAX & ORS.                                                       ..... RespondentsAdvocates who appeared in this case:For the Petitioner :         Mr Harsh Sethi and Mr Ruchir BhatiaFor the Respondents     :    Mr P.Roychaudhuri for R-1.                             Mr Rahul Malhotra for R-2.CORAM:-HON’BLE MR JUSTICE SANJEEV SACHDEVA                                JUDGMENT                                 17.01.2017 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J. (ORAL) 1.	PREAMBLE
The petitioner seeks quashing of the sealing order under Section 60 of the Delhi Value Added Tax Act, 2004 dated 11.12.2015 in respect of the premises bearing No.S-21&22 on the Second Floor, Select City Walk, District Centre Saket, New Delhi, and for de- sealing of the premises.	FAC
 2.       It is contended that the petitioner is the owner of the Select City Walk as also the said premises bearing No. S-21&22 on the Second Floor, Select City Walk, District Centre Saket, New Delhi. 3.      It is submitted that by Agreement of Licence dated 06.03.2007, the premises was licensed to respondent No.2 to open and run a restaurant and Bar in the name and style of “Geoffreys’. 4.      It is contended that on 11.12.2015, the officers of respondent No.1 – Commissioner Value Added Tax, came and sealed the said premises on account of alleged violation of the provisions of Delhi Value Added Tax by respondent No.2. 5	FAC
.      It is contended that respondent No.2 was a mere licensee and has no right, title or interest in the said premises.	FAC
6.      	ARG_PETITIONER
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner is willing to make available some space in the same Complex where the goods of the respondent No.2 can be shifted so that the premises of the petitioner can be de-sealed.	ARG_PETITIONER
7.      	ARG_RESPONDENT
Learned counsel for the respondent No.2 submits that respondent No.2 has no objection to the goods being shifted to another premises within the same Complex.	ARG_RESPONDENT
             He further submits that respondent No.2 has no right, title or claim to the said premises and is also not seeking to enforce the rights granted under the Licence Agreement any further.	ARG_RESPONDENT
8.      	ARG_RESPONDENT
Learned counsel appearing for the Commissioner, Value Added Tax, submits that the Commissioner has no objection to the goods being shifted to some other portion in the same Complex provided that the respondent No.2 is not permitted to deal with the goods till the Commissioner, Value Added Tax is in a position to take appropriate step with regard to attachment/seizure of the same.	ARG_RESPONDENT
It is submitted that since the premises had been sealed, the Commissioner did not take any step for initiating any action for attachment/seizure of the goods as the goods were lying in the sealed premises.	ARG_RESPONDENT
9.      	ARG_RESPONDENT
He further submits that the petitioner should ensure that the goods, that are shifted, are secured till further action is taken by the Commissioner, Value Added Tax and further the respondent No.2 is not permitted to deal with the goods. 10	ARG_RESPONDENT
.     In view of the above submission, the petitioner is directed to make an appropriate arrangement of space in the same complex for shifting the goods of respondent No.2 lying in the premises bearing No.S-21&22 on the Second Floor, Select City Walk, District Centre Saket, New Delhi.	RPC
 11.     The petitioner should ensure that the location where the goods are shifted are of a condition, which can be sealed and secured.	RPC
 12.     Accordingly, Ms Sumedha Dang, Advocate, who is present in Court, (Mobile No. 9717325769), is appointed as a Local Commissioner to supervise the dismantling of equipment and shifting of the equipment and goods, furniture, fittings and fixtures to a secured location within the same complex.	RPC
 13.     The Commission shall be executed commencing from Friday, the 20th January, 2017.	RPC
In case the dismantling and shifting cannot take place in a day, the Commissioner shall ensure that the shifting carries on, on day to day basis.	RPC
 14.     The officers of the respondent No.1 and representative of respondent No. 2 shall also be permitted to be present at the time of the dismantling and shifting of the equipment, fittings & fixtures and furniture belonging to respondent No. 2 from the said premises.	RPC
 15.     The Local Commissioner shall also prepare an inventory of the equipment, fittings & fixtures and furniture belonging to respondent No. 2, which is shifted.	RPC
The petitioner shall make arrangement for video-graphy of the entire exercise.	RPC
Copy of the video-graph shall also be deposited in Court by the Local Commissioner.	RPC
 16.     The Local Commissioner shall ensure that the premises, where the equipment, fittings & fixtures and furniture belonging to respondent No. 2 is shifted, is secured and sealed.	RPC
The keys shall be deposited with the Registrar General of this Court.	RPC
 17.     The fee of the Local Commissioner shall be Rs.75,000/- per day, to be borne equally by the petitioner as well as the respondent No.2.	RPC
 18.     Respondent No.1 is granted four weeks time to take appropriate steps, as may be permissible in law, with regard to the equipment, fittings & fixtures and furniture belonging to respondent No. 2.	RPC
 19.     In case no steps are taken by respondent No.1 for seizure/attachment of the said equipment, fittings & fixtures and furniture belonging to respondent No. 2, within the period of four weeks, the same shall be liable to be handed over to respondent No.2. 20.     	RPC
The officers of respondent No.1 shall be present on the said premises at 11 A.M. on 20th January, 2017 for the purposes of desealing of the premises and commencement of the process of shifting.	RPC
 21.     After the process of shifting is completed the said premises i.e.premises bearing No.S-21&22 on the Second Floor, Select City Walk, District Centre Saket, New Delhi shall not be sealed and the possession of the premises shall be handed over to the Petitioner.	RPC
 22.     The Writ Petition is accordingly disposed of in the above terms. 23.     List for reporting compliance on 22nd February, 2017	RPC
. 24.     Dasti under signatures of the Court Master.	NONE
 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J JANUARY 17, 2017 ‘Sn’	NONE
