$~1 to 3*        IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI	PREAMBLE
+                                      ITA 1058/2011         DIRECTOR OF INCOME TAX INTERNATIONAL TAXATION-II                                                    .....	PREAMBLE
Appellant	PREAMBLE
Through:	PREAMBLE
Mr. Rahul Kaushik, Senior Standing	PREAMBLE
                                Counsel                                       versus         ROLLS ROYCE INDUSTRIAL POWER INDIA LTD.....Respondent	PREAMBLE
Through: Mr. M.S. Syali,	PREAMBLE
Senior Advocate                               with Mr. Satyen Sethi, Mr. Mayank	PREAMBLE
                               Negi & Mr. Arth Taran Panda,                               Advocates	PREAMBLE
                                                WITH+	PREAMBLE
                                     ITA 1061/2011         DIRECTOR OF INCOME TAX INTERNATIONAL TAXATION	PREAMBLE
-II                                                    .....	PREAMBLE
Appellant	PREAMBLE
Through:	PREAMBLE
Mr. Rahul Kaushik, Senior Standing	PREAMBLE
Counsel                                       versus         ROLLS ROYCE INDUSTRIAL POWER INDIA LTD....	PREAMBLE
Respondent	PREAMBLE
Through:	PREAMBLE
Mr. M.S. Syali, Senior Advocate	PREAMBLE
with Mr. Satyen Sethi,	PREAMBLE
Mr. Mayank                               Negi & Mr. Arth Taran Panda,	PREAMBLE
                               Advocates	PREAMBLE
AND+                                      ITA 1063/2011         DIRECTOR OF INCOME	PREAMBLE
TAX INTERNATIONAL TAXATION-II                                                     ..... Appellant                       Through: Mr. Rahul Kaushik, Senior Standing                                Counsel                       versus         ROLLS ROYCE INDUSTRIAL POWER INDIA LTD.... Respondent                      Through: Mr. M.S. Syali, Senior Advocate                               with Mr. Satyen Sethi, Mr. Mayank                               Negi & Mr. Arth Taran Panda,                               Advocates         CORAM: JUSTICE S.MURALIDHAR                JUSTICE CHANDER SHEKHAR                                       ORDER	PREAMBLE
       %                               18.05.2017	NONE
Dr. S. Muralidhar, J.: 1.	NONE
These are three appeals by the Revenue under Section 260A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 („Act‟) against the common order dated 5th October, 2010 passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal („ITAT‟) in ITA Nos.1410, 1411 and 1413/Del/2007 relating to Assessment Years („AYs‟) 1998- 1999, 1999-2000 and 2001-2002. 2.	FAC
It must be mentioned at the outset that at the time of admission of these appeals, on 23rd March, 2012, there were 7, 4 and 6 questions of law framed in ITA Nos. 1058, 1061 and 1063 of 2011 respectively.	FAC
In each of the said appeals, the first question framed reads as under: “(1) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, ITAT was right in law in holding that assumption of jurisdiction under section 148 of the Income tax Act, 1961 was not valid?” 3.	FAC
The other questions pertain inter alia to the treatment of payments received by the Assessee from the operation and maintenance of power plant projects i.e. whether these receipts were taxable either as business income or as fee for technical services (FTS).	FAC
In these three appeals, however, the Court proposes to confine its examination to the first question viz., the validity of the assumption of jurisdiction under Section 148 of the Act.	ISSUE
4. Having heard learned counsel for the parties, the Court is satisfied that the said question has, for reasons to follow, to be answered in favour of the Assessee.	ANALYSIS
Resultantly all consequential assessment orders are rendered invalid thus obviating the need to examine the other questions that pertain to the additions made under the consequential assessment orders.	ANALYSIS
The Court however clarifies that the other questions framed in these appeals, and which arise in certain other connected appeals of the Revenue against the Assessee for other AYs are left open to be decided in the other appeals.	ANALYSIS
 5. The Assessee, a company incorporated under the laws of the United Kingdom (U.K.), during the AYs in question, was engaged, inter alia, in the business         of     erection,          commissioning,   supervision,   operation        and maintenance of power plants.	FAC
The business activities in India were carried out by the Assessee through various projects, offices, located in India.	FAC
These, according to the Revenue constituted the Assessee's permanent establishment in India under Article 5 of the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA) between India and U.K. 6.	FAC
The Assessee's returns for the three AYs in question i.e., AYs 1998-99, 1999-2000 and 2001-2002 were picked up for scrutiny and the assessments were completed by the Assessing Officer (AO) by passing assessment orders under Section 143(3) of the Act.	FAC
Placed before the Court are copies of the questionnaires issued by the AO for the relevant AYs and the replies thereto filed by the Assessee.	FAC
These questionnaires refer to the nature of the transactions and the payments received in relation thereto.	FAC
 7. For the Financial Year 2004-2005 , the Assessee filed applications dated 25th June, 2004 and 27th May, 2004 under Section 195(3) of the Act for issuance of nil deduction of Tax Deducted at Source („TDS‟).	FAC
The Assistant Director of Income-Tax („ADIT‟) Circle-II (1), International Transactions, by an order dated 20th July, 2004 declined the application.	FAC
He, inter alia, proposed to initiate reassessment/revision proceedings under Sections 147/263 in respect of the earlier orders to bring the correct income to tax in accordance with law.	FAC
The plea taken in this order was that payments received by the Assesse, pursuant to the Operations and Maintenance (O&M) Agreements should be treated as fees for technical services („FTS‟) within the meaning of Explanation 2 to Section 9(1)(vii) of the Act and Article 13(4) (c) of the DTAA between India and U.K. 8.	FAC
Aggrieved by the above order, the Petitioner applied to the Director of Income Tax („DIT‟) under Section 264 of the Act.	FAC
By an order dated 20th December, 2004, the DIT set aside the order of the ADIT, holding that the “Assesse here is neither making available technical knowledge, experience nor is developing and transferring technical plan or design.”	FAC
He concluded that the services rendered under the O&M Agreements "cannot be considered as ancillary or subsidiary to the enjoyment of any right prescribed as „royalty‟."	FAC
Further, “under Article 13 therefore the fee for technical services does not fit into the nature of receipt the assessee is having.” 9.	FAC
Notwithstanding the above orders, the AO proceeded to reopen the assessments under Section 147 read with 148 of the Act for the three AYs in question, i.e., 1998-1999, 1999-2000 and 2001-2002.	FAC
The reasons therefor were issued by the AO on 28th March 2005.	FAC
It was noted inter alia by him therein that in the original assessment orders under Section 143(3) of the Act “no opinion with regard to taxation of these technical services has been formed by the then AO.”	FAC
It was further stated that “the facts relating to the nature of income being fees for technical services have never been brought to the notice of the AO.” 10.	FAC
The Assessee objected to the reopening inter alia on the ground that it was based on mere „change of opinion‟.	FAC
Its objections were rejected by an order dated 9th September, 2005. 11.	FAC
The reassessments were completed by treating the payments as FTS.	FAC
The Assessee then carried the matter by way of appeals to the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) [CIT(A)].	FAC
By a common order dated 29th December, 2006 passed in the appeals pertaining to the three AYs in question, the CIT(A), relying on the decision of the Division Bench („DB‟) of this Court in Consolidated Photo and Finvest Ltd. v. Assistant Commissioner of Income-Tax, [2006] 281 ITR 394(Del), came to the conclusion that since the original assessment orders were silent on the aspect of treating the payments received by the Assessee as FTS, the jurisdictional pre-condition for attracting Section 147 stood fulfilled.	FAC
12. Aggrieved by the above order, the Assessee went before the ITAT.	FAC
In the impugned order, the ITAT noted that while for AYs 1998-1999 and 1999-2000 the notices under Section 148 of the Act were issued after four years, the notice for the AY 2001-2002 had been issued within four years.	FAC
The ITAT referred to the decision of the Full Bench („FB‟) of this Court in CIT v. Kelvinator of India Ltd. (2002) 256 ITR 1 (Del).	ANALYSIS
It also noted the decision of this Court in CIT vs. Eicher Ltd. (2007) 294 ITR 310(Del) where it was held that if the entire material had been placed by the Assessee before the AO at the time when the original assessment was made and the AO had applied his mind to material and accepted the view of the Assessee, then the assessment cannot be reopened merely on the basis of change of opinion.	ANALYSIS
 13. The ITAT examined the assessment orders, queries raised by the AO and the other material on record and concluded that the Assessee had duly disclosed the very nature of its activities.	ANALYSIS
As regards the observation of the AO that the Assessee should have filed the accounts of each project individually, instead of filing the consolidated statement of accounts, the ITAT noted that the Assesse had been filing audited accounts.	ANALYSIS
It opined that “it was the duty of the AO to have examined this aspect in the scrutiny assessment.”	ANALYSIS
Further, the AO had called for information in that regard and the Assessee had submitted an explanation on its activities.	ANALYSIS
The ITAT, therefore, held that it was "a different perception of the new incumbent on the same details."	ANALYSIS
Thus, the assessment has been reopened by the AO "only on the basis of the change of opinion".	ANALYSIS
Further, the ITAT noted that for the AYs 1998-1999 and 1999-2000, the AO was unable to point out which material facts had not been disclosed by the Assessee.	ANALYSIS
The Assessee‟s appeals were allowed and the reassessment orders set aside.	ANALYSIS
 14. This Court has heard the submissions of both Mr. Rahul Kaushik, learned Senior Standing Counsel for the Revenue and Mr. M.S. Syali, learned Senior Counsel for the Assessee.	ANALYSIS
The Court has also perused the notices/questionnaires issued by the AO in the course of the assessment proceedings and the replies thereto by the Assessee.	ANALYSIS
The Court has also perused the original assessment orders passed under Section 143(3) of the Act and the reasons for the reopening of the assessments.	ANALYSIS
 15. The main plank of the submission of the Revenue before the CIT(A), which has been adverted to by the ITAT in the impugned order, is the decision of the DB of this Court in Consolidated Photo and Finvest Ltd. v.Assistant Commissioner of Income-Tax (supra).	ANALYSIS
In particular, reliance is placed on the following observations: “19.....	ANALYSIS
The argument that the proposed reopening of assessment was based only upon a change of opinion has not impressed us.	ANALYSIS
The assessment order did not admittedly address itself to the question which the assessing officer proposes to examine in the course of re- assessment proceedings.	ANALYSIS
The submission of Mr. Vohra that even when the order of assessment did not record any explicit opinion on the aspects now sought to be examined, it must be presumed that those aspects were present to the mind of the assessing officer and had been held in favour of the assessee is too farfetched a proposition to merit acceptance.	ANALYSIS
There may indeed be a presumption that the assessment proceedings have been regularly conducted, but there can be no presumption that even when the order of assessment is silent, all possible angles and aspects of a controversy had been examined and determined by the assessing officer.	ANALYSIS
It is trite that a matter in issue can be validly determined only upon application of mind by the authority determining the same.	ANALYSIS
Application of mind is, in turn, best demonstrated by disclosure of mind, which is best done by giving reasons for the view which the authority is taking.	ANALYSIS
In cases where the order passed by a statutory authority is silent as to the reasons for the conclusion it has drawn, it can well be said that the authority has not applied its mind to the issue before it nor formed any opinion.	ANALYSIS
The principle that a mere change of opinion cannot be a basis for reopening computed assessments would be applicable only to situations where the assessing officer has applied his mind and taken a conscious decision on a particular matter in issue.	ANALYSIS
It will have no application where the order of assessment does not address itself to the aspect which is the basis for reopening of the assessment, as is the position in the present case.	ANALYSIS
It is in that view inconsequential whether or not the material necessary for taking a decision was available to the assessing officer either generally or in the form of a reply to the questionnaire served upon the assessed.	ANALYSIS
What is important is whether the assessing officer had based on the material available to him taken a view.	ANALYSIS
If he had not done so, the proposed reopening cannot be assailed on the ground that the same is based only on a change of opinion.” 16.	ANALYSIS
The fact of the matter is that later Benches of this Court, including two Full Benches in CIT v. Kelvinator of India Ltd.(supra) and CIT v. Usha International Ltd., (2012) 348 ITR 485 have disagreed with the view expressed by the DB in Consolidated Photo and Finvest Ltd. v. Assistant Commissioner of Income-Tax(supra).	ANALYSIS
In fact, the decision of the FB in CIT v. Kelvinator of India Ltd.(supra) was affirmed by the Supreme Court in CIT v. Kelvinator of India Ltd. [2010] 320 ITR 561 (SC).	ANALYSIS
 17. The Full Bench of this Court in CIT v. Usha International Ltd.(supra), specifically overruled the decision of the DB in Consolidated Photo and Finvest Ltd. v. Assistant Commissioner of Income-Tax(supra).	ANALYSIS
Even prior thereto, in KLM Royal Dutch Airlines v. ADIT [2007] 292 ITR 49, another DB of this Court noticed the anomaly that had resulted from the decision in Consolidated Photo and Finvest Ltd. v. Assistant Commissioner of Income-Tax (supra), which was contrary to other decisions, including the decision of the FB in CIT v. Kelvinator of India Ltd.(supra).	ANALYSIS
This was noticed by the DB in KLM Royal Dutch Airlines v. ADIT (supra) where it observed: “16.	ANALYSIS
The Full Bench of this Court in Commissioner of Income-Tax v.         Kelvinator of India Ltd.	ANALYSIS
[2002] 256 ITR 1 had opined that the amendments introduced into Section 147 with effect from 1.4.1989 have not altered the position that a mere change of opinion of the AO was not sufficient ground for embarking on a reassessment.	ANALYSIS
Calcutta Discount was duly considered and applied by the Full Bench.	ANALYSIS
The Full Bench further observed that an order of assessment must be presumed to have been passed by the AO concerned after due and proper application of mind.	ANALYSIS
In these circumstances the decision of the Division Bench in Consolidated Photo and Finvest Ltd. v. Assistant Commissioner of Income-Tax , inasmuch as it is irreconcilable with the views of the Full Bench, must be held not to lay down the correct law.	ANALYSIS
This is especially so since the assessment proceedings had not come to an end under the first sub-section of Section 143, but under the third Sub-section.	ANALYSIS
A Division Bench of a particular High Court is fully bound by the view preferred by a larger Bench of that Court, regardless of the fact that another High Court prefers a different view in this case that of the Gujarat High Court as in Gruh Finance Ltd. v.         Joint Commissioner of Income-Tax (Assessment) , Praful Chunilal Patel v. M.J. Makwana, Assistant CIT and Garden Silk Mills Ltd. v.         Deputy CIT (No. 1).	ANALYSIS
The Full Bench of this Court has taken into consideration both Praful Chunilal Patel as well as Garden Silk Mills.	ANALYSIS
         In Kelvinator the Full Bench had also analysed the earlier Division Bench decisions, namely, Jindal Photo Films Ltd. v. Deputy Commissioner of Income-Tax presided over by R.C. Lahoti J. (as learned Chief Justice of India then was) and Bawa Abhai Singh v.         Deputy Commissioner of Income-Tax [2002] 253 ITR 83 comprising Arijit Pasayat and D.K. Jain JJ. (as their Lordships then were).	ANALYSIS
It is quite possible that had the Court in Consolidated Photo been made aware of the consistent opinion of this Court in Jindal Photo and Bawa Abhai Singh, their conclusion may have been totally different, notwithstanding alternative view of the Gujarat High Court.” 18.	ANALYSIS
There is no manner of doubt that the decision of the DB of this Court in Consolidated Photo and Finvest Ltd. v. Assistant Commissioner of Income-Tax(supra) is no longer good law.	ANALYSIS
The main plank of the Revenue's case before this Court, therefore, fails.	ANALYSIS
Nevertheless, the Court proceeds to examine the question of validity of the reopening of the assessments for the AYs in question.	ANALYSIS
 19. The fact of the matter is that during the course of the original assessments under Section 143 (3), the AO did serve upon the Assessee a detailed questionnaire.	ANALYSIS
The AO examined the nature of the transactions involving the Assessee and the payments received therefor.	ANALYSIS
The reopening was not based on any fresh material.	ANALYSIS
By revisiting the same materials the successor AO now concluded that the payments received by the Assessee pursuant to the O&M Agreements should be treated as FTS.	ANALYSIS
In the circumstances, the view taken by a successor AO on the same material was indeed nothing but a mere change of opinion.	ANALYSIS
It is a well-settled legal proposition, as explained in Calcutta Discount Co. Ltd. v. ITO [1961] 41 ITR 191(SC) that once an Assessee has discharged the burden of not only producing the account books and other documents, but also the specific material relevant to the assessment, "it is for the Income-tax Officer to draw the proper inferences of fact and law therefrom and the Assessee cannot further be called upon to do so for him."    	ANALYSIS
In Indian Oil Corporation v.ITO [1986] 159 ITR 956.	ANALYSIS
the Court pertinently observed "it is for the taxing authority to draw inference.	ANALYSIS
It is not necessary for the Assessee to draw inference.”	ANALYSIS
These observations apply on all fours to the case on hand.	RATIO
Here the Assessee had discharged its burden of disclosing fully and truly all the material facts before the AO during the original assessments.	RATIO
There was no basis for the successor AO to conclude that "no opinion with regard to taxation" of the payments received for the services rendered had been formed by the AO.	RATIO
It is plain that the pre-condition for invoking Section 147 did not exist.	RATIO
The assumption of jurisdiction under Section 148 of the Act was not valid.	RATIO
 20. Consequently, the question framed by this Court on the above aspect is answered in the affirmative, i.e., in favor of the Assesse and against the Revenue.	RPC
The appeals are dismissed, but with no order as to costs.	RPC
 S.MURALIDHAR, J CHANDER SHEKHAR, J MAY 18, 2017/tp	NONE
