IN THE COURT THE III ADDL. SENIOR CIVIL JUDGE                                  MYSORE	PREAMBLE
PRESENT: Sri.K.B.Patil, B.Com, LL.B., and (Spl.)	PREAMBLE
III Addl. Sr.Civil Judge & CJM.             	PREAMBLE
Dated on this the 16th day of March 2012           MIS.APPEAL NO.119/2005APPELLANT  : The Union of India,              R/by Tax Recovery Officer,             Range-II, Mysore.                           (By Smt.K.P.Usha, Advocate)                                        VsRESONDENTS: 1. Bhishma Pithamaha,                         S/o.	PREAMBLE
late Maniram,	PREAMBLE
                         80 years,	PREAMBLE
                         Door No.573, Ashoka Road,                         Mysore.	PREAMBLE
           2. Sri. Ramjanam,           S/o.	PREAMBLE
Sri. Banvari,           	PREAMBLE
Aged about 42 years,           R/o.	PREAMBLE
Door No.573,           Ashoka Road, Mysore.	PREAMBLE
3. Tripura Bhairavi Mutt of	PREAMBLE
           Northern India,	PREAMBLE
Rept. By Mahanth Krishna           Mohanananda Giri Goswamy,           R/o.	PREAMBLE
Door No.573,           Ashoka Road, Mysore.	PREAMBLE
(By Sri.B.R.C, Adv.for R3)           (By Sri.MD.Adv. For R1&2)Date and nature of the decree or  Against the orders on IA 1 in OSorder:                            758/2005 dtd 30.9.2005 on the file                                  of Prl. I Civil Judge (Jr.Div) at                                  MysoreDate of the Institution of the    09.11.2005Appeal                            16.03.2012Date of Judgment :Duration of the Appeal            Years       Months  Days                                   07            04    07                                     III ADDL. SR.CIVIL JUDGE,                                                MYSORE.:: J U D G M E N T ::	PREAMBLE
The present appeal is filed by the Appellant Union of India against the Respondents under Order 43 Rule 1 of C.P.C. being aggrieved by the order passed on I.A. 1 in O.S.No. 758/2005 on 30.9.2005 by the Principal First Civil Judge (Jr.Div.), Mysore.	FAC
 Hereinafter the status of the parties will be referred to as arrayed in the original suit.	NONE
 2. I.A. 1 is filed by the Plaintiff under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 of C.P.C. praying to grant an order of ad-interim Temporary Injunction restraining the Defendants, their agents, servants or anybody acting on their behalf from alienating the 'A' schedule property pending disposal of the suit.	FAC
 3. The brief facts of the case of the Plaintiff are that, the 3rd Defendant is an Income Tax and Wealth Tax Assessee.	FAC
The Income Tax and Wealth Tax returns reveal the particulars of Assets and Liabilities of 3rd Defendant from the year 1969-70 onwards.	FAC
The existing tax liability of the 3rd Defendant to the Income Tax Department is to an extent of Rs.50,00,000/- and interest thereon.	FAC
Mahanth P.Krishnandagiri Goswamy, the then Mahanth of the 3rd Defendant had been filed returns of Income Tax and Wealth Tax on behalf of 3rd Defendant.	FAC
All the returns were signed and verified by him during his lifetime.	FAC
The entire income belonged to 3rd Defendant Mutt and none of it belonged to Mahanth P.Krishnandagiri Goswamy in his individual capacity.	FAC
He failed to furnish the books of accounts.	FAC
It was concluded that entire income belonged to the said person under his individual capacity and none of it belonged to the Trust.	FAC
Since "status" issue was under dispute, protective assessments were made in the name of 3rd Defendant.	FAC
He had declared the suit schedule properties as the assets of 3rd Defendant.	FAC
The Assessments pertaining to the period 1969- 70 to 1985-86 were concluded in the hands of Mahant P.Krishnandagiri Goswamy.	FAC
The Mahanth contended that assets and consequential income belonged to the 3rd Defendant.	FAC
Whether the properties belonged to the deceased Mahant in individual capacity or it is owned by the Mutt, the Wealth Tax liability and Income Tax liability was for the accrued Wealth and Income derived out of the said properties as such to whom so ever the ownership passes, that person is liable to pay the tax arrears.	FAC
It is further contended that, the said Mahant clearly expressed that he had no taxable wealth or income in his individual capacity, as such he was not filing any returns.	FAC
Hence the Trust was assessed in the status of A.J.P.	FAC
The demand notices were issued to him for the recovery of dues since he was representing the Trust during his lifetime.	FAC
When the Tax was not paid after receipt of notice, the Plaintiff issued the order of attachment of immovable properties including the suit schedule property.	FAC
In I.T."C" 16 dated 13.9.1988 for Rs.13,50,802/- and also other arrears in respect of Certificate No.81-X dated 24.3.1988 and thereby prohibited and restrained the 3rd Defendant's Mahant P.Krishnandagiri Goswamy from transferring or charging the attached property, in any way and that all persons were prohibited from enjoying any benefit under such transfer until further order of the Tax Recovery Officer, Mysore Circle.	FAC
 4. It is further contended that since the said Mahant did not pay off the arrears of tax during his life time, after his death, the Plaintiff issued order of attachment of immovable property dated 3.5.1995 to his successor-in-office in the Mutt.	FAC
The said order was served on the 3rd Defendant.	FAC
"Notice of Demand" U/s. 156 of the Income Tax Act 1961 was issued on 12.8.2001.	FAC
Thereafter the Plaintiff published the fact of attachment of the above said properties and copy of the attachment order was displayed in the notice board of the Income Tax Office.	FAC
The 1st Defendant is the brother of deceased Mahanth and has claimed to be the legal heir of the said Mahant.	FAC
After the death of the said Mahant, the 1st Defendant is indulged in selling of the properties of the 3rd Defendant's Mutt.	FAC
The 3rd Defendant has also sold one of the properties under attachment.	FAC
The Plaintiff already filed a suit in O.S.No. 933/2002 against the 1st Defendant and others before the 2nd Addl. Civil Judge (Jr.Divn) Mysore since, the 1st Defendant illegally sold one of the properties under an attachment to one Rehman Khan and Reshma Bhanu of Mysore.	FAC
The said suit, after transfer on the ground of jurisdiction is pending on the file of Hon'ble Principal Civil Judge (Sr.Divn), Mysore, in O.S.No.539/2003.	FAC
O.S.No.430/2005 is also pending against the 1st Defendant and others in connection with the sale of another item of the attached properties.	FAC
Even after that the 1st Defendant kept on disposing off the properties.	FAC
 5. The Plaintiff is a jural authority under the provisions of Income Tax Act and the order of attachment of the Tax Recovery Officer was not challenged before any authority as such the Plaintiff has been in constructive possession of the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
Further, it was made clear in order of attachment that all persons are prohibited and restrained from transferring or changing the suit schedule properties in any manner.	ANALYSIS
That the suit schedule properties were attached for the recovery of huge arrears of Income Tax dues and Wealth Tax dues from the 3rd Defendant.	ANALYSIS
The 1st Defendant, without any legal right or title established over the schedule properties, sold the B schedule properties to various purchasers through his General Power of Attorney Holder i.e. 2nd Defendant.	ANALYSIS
It is learnt that 3rd Defendant also sold some of the attached properties.	ANALYSIS
The 1st Defendant by suppressing the said fact is attempting to sell 'A' schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
The order of attachment dated 13.9.1988 and 03.5.1995 are binding on the 1st Defendant also.	ANALYSIS
Hence this suit and the application.	ANALYSIS
Under these circumstances, if an order to Temporary Injunction as prayed for in I.A. is not granted, the Plaintiff will be put to great loss and the 1st Defendant will sell the remaining properties.	ANALYSIS
In such circumstances it will leads to multiplicity of proceedings.	ANALYSIS
6. The 1st Defendant, in his written statement has contended that the suit itself is not maintainable either in law or on facts or on preponderance of probabilities.	ANALYSIS
The Tax Recovery Officer has not obtained sanction as required under the Law to file this suit.	ANALYSIS
The Tax Recovery Officer has no locus standi to lodge the suit.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff has not complied the provision of C.P.C.	ANALYSIS
Hence the Plaint is liable to be rejected.	ANALYSIS
Knowing fully well that no Court has declared the 3rd Defendant as the absolute owner of the suit schedule properties, the Plaintiff has falsely contended that the 3rd Defendant is the owner of the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff's authority has no jurisdiction to decide the title of the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
When it is clear from the further contentions of Paragraph 3 that deceased Mahant would not substantiate that the property belonged to the 3rd Defendant.	ANALYSIS
It is obvious that the property falls under the category of individual property and hence the statement made that it belongs to 3rd Defendant is false.	ANALYSIS
The 1st Defendant as a owner which official record point out and also the revenue records pointed out that properties were ancestral in nature lodged his application for to be treated as Legal representative of the deceased Assessee and tax could be collected from this Defendant.	ANALYSIS
But the Plaintiff was reluctant at the behest of the one Krishna Mohanananda Giri Goswamy.	ANALYSIS
Despite Court order the Plaintiff contrarily, unilaterally started dealing with a non-existing person.	ANALYSIS
The artificial juridical person styled as 3rd Defendant is not creation of any statute or by any constitution.	ANALYSIS
There is no official record to show the existence of Tripura Bhyravi Matha.	ANALYSIS
The arrears if any has to be claimed from him.	ANALYSIS
Now the revenue is estopped from demanding any such arrears from the 1st Defendant as barred by time.	ANALYSIS
It is further contended that as by verdicts of Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka and Hon'ble Supreme Court, Bhishma Pithamaha has been held as the absolute owner of certain items of the property.	ANALYSIS
Naturally the Plaintiff ought to have approached this Defendant.	ANALYSIS
But the Plaintiff went on appeasing the self styled Mahant of a non-existing Matha.	ANALYSIS
The contentions made in Paragraph No.5 are totally false.	ANALYSIS
Further contention that the 3rd Defendant was restrained from alienating the property is also false.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff has not placed any documents to show that the property stood in the name of 3rd Defendant.	ANALYSIS
The contention made in para 6 of the plaint that it has even by 1995 did not accept this Defendant as at lest prospective Assessee but considered the 3rd Defendant only as the Assessee and dares to state that schedule properties belonging to 3rd Defendant.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff knowing fully well that there is a rival claim how did the revenue deal only with the 3rd Defendant.	ANALYSIS
This Defendant is not a party to such order who is in reality has been owner of the schedule properties at relevant point of time.	ANALYSIS
The procedure of attachment cannot be considered as this Defendant was kept away by colluding with the self styled Mahant of non-existing 3rd Defendant.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff has no business to say that the properties of 3rd Defendant are sold by this Defendant.	ANALYSIS
No document is placed to show that the 3rd Defendant ever existed.	ANALYSIS
The Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka in Writ Petition No.13170 of 1999 has made it clear that the Plaintiff cannot decide as to the ownership of the property.	ANALYSIS
The deceased had even given statement that the alleged Mahantha is his personal and that he is the absolute owner of it.	ANALYSIS
 7. It is further contended that the averments made in para 8 are reckless statement.	ANALYSIS
The plaint in O.S.No.932/2002 was returned.	ANALYSIS
Even now in its existing condition the suit is bad for non-payment of sufficient Court fee.	ANALYSIS
The officer of the Plaintiff has made a false statement under oath that the suit is transferred.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff has failed to get any order and this Defendant has absolute owner was at liberty to deal with his property in the manner he decide.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff lacks elementary principles of law as to what constitutes judicial authority and force of judicial authority.	ANALYSIS
Thus the contentions of para 10 are baseless.	ANALYSIS
The 2nd Defendant has obeyed the 1st Defendant.	ANALYSIS
Thus he is neither a necessary party nor a proper party and no relief is also sought against him.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff is not the authority to state that this Defendant did not have any right, title or interest over the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff has filed this false and frivolous suit on the instigation of the 3rd Defendant, when the 3rd Defendant has failed to get any order in any Court of Law.	ANALYSIS
This suit is hopelessly barred by time.	ANALYSIS
The cause of action dated 17.8.2001, 10.12.2003 and 4.4.2005 relates to 'B' schedule property with respect to which no relief is sought.	ANALYSIS
The deceased Mahant behind 1st Defendant as sole surviving coparcener and since then this Defendant tried to lodge his returns but was not allowed by Revenue.	ANALYSIS
Now that the Civil Courts have held that 1st Defendant is the Legal representative of the deceased Mahant.	ANALYSIS
The Income Tax and Wealth Tax has been remitted indicating clearly the properties that include the suit schedule property.	ANALYSIS
Now the Plaintiff is estopped from stating that the property is that of not 1st Defendant.	ANALYSIS
When the returns are filed and finalized there is no meaning of even mentioning about protective assessment.	ANALYSIS
The department in deed did not accept the contention to AJP.	ANALYSIS
Now the Plaintiff to satisfy the 3rd Defendant has almost accepted this contention.	ANALYSIS
The order of attachment has lost its value in every term when the property is attached for an AJP Assessee but actually it belongs to individual.	ANALYSIS
Thus an order of attachment when carefully perused points out that this Defendant is not the party in those proceedings and the property never belonged to 3rd Defendant.	ANALYSIS
Hence the Income Tax dues is against an individual and not on property.	ANALYSIS
This concept appears to have last sight by the 3rd Defendant as well as the Plaintiff.	ANALYSIS
 The Plaintiff has recovered more than 99% of outstanding from the 3rd Defendant from the money amassed by the 3rd Defendant by wrongful sale of 1st Defendant's property at Pune.	ANALYSIS
But this fact has been suppressed by the Plaintiffs.	ANALYSIS
 The Plaintiffs have inherited thoughts of multiplying proceedings, as law is merciful in admitting the plaint.	ANALYSIS
The municipal records has classic entries that the property in question in ancestral.	ANALYSIS
Once it is ancestral, naturally it devolves on the Legal representative.	ANALYSIS
The 1st Defendant is the sole surviving coparcener who succeeds to the estate left behind by the deceased Mahant.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff has no right to question this succession.	ANALYSIS
Under these circumstances, he has sold the properties and subsequently after construction such purchasers have resold the same to various purchasers.	ANALYSIS
No relief thus can be sought against him unless the Plaintiff succeeds to annual the sale deeds.	ANALYSIS
There is no serious question of law or fact that this Court needs to be adjudicated.	ANALYSIS
Hence the plaint is liable to be rejected.	ANALYSIS
 8. The 3rd Defendant has not objected for grant the Temporary Injunction as prayed for by the Plaintiff.	ANALYSIS
9. Both the parties have pleaded the usual pleadings of prima-facie case, balance of convenience and irreparable injury.	ANALYSIS
On the basis of this contention, the Trial Court has framed Point No. 1 to 4 and answered Point No. 1 in the negative, Point No. 2 in favour of the 1st Defendant, Point No.3 in the negative and finally dismiss the I.A. filed under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 of C.P.C. 10.	ANALYSIS
Aggrieved by the said order of dismissal, the Appellant prefer this appeal on following grounds: 1. The Learned Judge highly erred in dismissing the I.A. 1 he ought to have allowed the I.A. 1 filed by the Appellant.	ARG_PETITIONER
2. The Learned Judge ought to have noticed the entire contention urged by the Plaintiff/Appellant in the plaint along with the documents especially the returns and the order of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Bangalore.	ARG_PETITIONER
In this behalf, the Learned Judge ought to have noted while disposing I.A. 1 for grant of injunction, the fact of the declaration of the Assessee in respect of the `properties in the returns' as that of the 3rd respondent, the documents produced by the 3rd respondent disclosing that by suppressing material facts before the City Corporation and MUDA the 1st Respondent illegally had obtained the change of khata and R.T.C. entries of the properties to his name, 3.	ARG_PETITIONER
It was highly erroneous on the part of the lower Court that it gave undue importance to the order produced by the 1st Respondent that the Competent Civil Court rejected the application of the 3rd respondent against the 1st Respondent praying to restrain the 1st Respondent from alienating the suit schedule properties while disposing of the I.A. 1.	ARG_PETITIONER
Without going through the said decision the lower Court wrongly relied on it.	ARG_PETITIONER
 4. When the Lower Court found out that there is a dispute between the 1st Respondent and the 3rd respondent in respect of the title of the suit schedule properties and Original Suit No.147/95 is pending before the Hon'ble II Addl.Civil Judge (Sr.Div), Mysore between those two Respondents.	ARG_PETITIONER
    Such being the case, the lower Court erred and wrongly relied on the Corporation entries and R.T.C. extracts produced by the 1st Respondent while deciding the point of prima-facie case.	ARG_PETITIONER
5. The Learned Judge highly erred in coming to the conclusion that (i) the Plaintiff did not recognize the 1st Respondent as an Assessee as the Legal representatives of the deceased Mahant P.Krishnandagiri Goswamy to collect the Income Tax dues, (ii) the appellant has not properly applied its mind and taken any steps to recover the Income Tax dues.	ARG_PETITIONER
It simply brushed aside the documents produced by the 3rd respondent, which disclose that some of the Hon'ble courts recognized the 3rd respondent as the Legal representative of the deceased Mahant P.Krishnandagiri Goswamy and the order of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal that the deceased Assessee was holding the suit schedule property only in a representative capacity of and blindly relied on the documents produced by the 1st Respondent.	ARG_PETITIONER
6. The Lower Court erred in not noticing that since the 1st Respondent did not challenge the findings of the I.T.A.T. Bangalore before the Apex Court or any declaration from the Civil Court that he is the owner of the properties, the Plaintiff cannot recognize him as an Assessee as such his returns were not considered.	ARG_PETITIONER
7. It was erroneous observation made by the lower Court to the effect that the Appellant did not establish a prima-facie case or irreparable loss and injury.	ARG_PETITIONER
It conveniently forgot that by the attempt attributable to the Defendant in alienating the suit `A' schedule properties grave injury would be occasioned to the interest of the Appellant.	ARG_PETITIONER
8. The Learned Judge highly erred in coming to the conclusion that when the Appellant attached the properties it should have taken steps to sell the properties to recover the amount within the time limit shown under of Rule 68B of the IT Rules.	ARG_PETITIONER
    The learned lower Court failed to appreciate the fact of pendency of number of I.T. reference cases and appeals before the Higher Courts, which temporarily prevented the authorities from bringing the properties to the process of sale.	ARG_PETITIONER
9. The Learned Lower Court Judge observed that admittedly the 1st Respondent is not a defaulter by which the question of restraining the 1st Respondent from alienating the properties does not arise at all.	ARG_PETITIONER
It has failed to appreciate the fact that suit properties are charged for Income Tax dues and without clearing the dues/or notice to the department the 1st Respondent got the khata and such other municipal records changed to his name, which gave rise to the Appellant to enforce the cause of action. 10.	ARG_PETITIONER
It was highly erroneously observation made by the lower Court to the effect that there was no necessity to file a suit for permanent injunction instead of that the Appellant could have taken action to sell the attached properties and make the 1st Respondent approach the Court of Law.	ARG_PETITIONER
    It conveniently forgot that the relief of permanent injunction was the only suitable relief that could be claimed.	ARG_PETITIONER
11. The Learned Lower Court Judge failed to notice that the order of attachment dated 13.9.1988 was duly served on the deceased Mahant P.Krishnandagiri Goswamy on 14.9.1988, when the lower Court finds that with regard to the legal heirship of the properties is under dispute and it is shown that the 1st Respondent already sold the B schedule properties to various purchasers, an order of injunction ought to have been granted in the case of the Appellant to safeguard the revenue of the State.	ARG_PETITIONER
12. It was highly erroneous observation made by the lower Court that in view of the case law furnished by the 1st Defendant (ILR 1997 Kar 3089) the relief of permanent injunction cannot be granted.	ARG_PETITIONER
It erred in not noting that the said case law is not applicable to the facts and circumstances of the case of the appellant.	ARG_PETITIONER
The reasoning given by the lower Court in support of its order of dismissal is neither cogent nor correct.	ARG_PETITIONER
 13. It was erroneous observation made by the Lower Court to the effect that the Appellant did not establish a prima-facie, therefore the question of considering balance of convenience and irreparable injury does not arise.	ARG_PETITIONER
14. The impugned order is contrary to facts, opposed to the questions of law and perverse.	ARG_PETITIONER
            Hence liable to be set aside.	ARG_PETITIONER
Hence prayed for allow the appeal.	ARG_PETITIONER
11. In response to the notice issued in this case, the respondents appeared through their respective counsel.	NONE
 12. On the basis of the above pleadings the following points arises for my consideration: 1.	ISSUE
Whether plaintiff made out a prima-facie case for grant of Temporary Injunction?	ISSUE
 2. Whether Plaintiff proves that the balance of convenience lies in his favour?	ISSUE
 3. Whether Plaintiff proves that he will be put to irreparable loss and injury if an order of ad-interim Temporary Injunction is not granted?	ISSUE
4. Whether it is necessary to interfere with the order passed by the Trial Court?	ISSUE
 5. What Order?	ISSUE
 13. My findings on the above points are as follows:-	NONE
Point No.1:     In the negative Point No. 2:    In the negative Point No. 3:    In the negative Point No. 4:    Partly in affirmative Point No. 5:	ANALYSIS
As per final order for the following:- :: R E A S O N S :: 14.	NONE
Point No: 1 to 4: All these points are interrelated and hence answering in common in order to avoid the repetition of facts.	ANALYSIS
 15. From the contention taken by the Plaintiff and the Defendants in the present case it is clear that, 1st Defendant is claiming the suit schedule properties under succession and Defendant No.3 is claiming the suit schedule properties as acquired as he is represents the 3rd Defendant.	ANALYSIS
With respect to the suit schedule properties, there is a title dispute between the 1st Defendant and the 3rd Defendant.	ANALYSIS
Admittedly, the 1st Defendant has filed a suit against the 3rd Defendant in O.S.No.147/1995 and 3rd Defendant has filed a suit against the 1st Defendant in O.S.No. 100/1994 and 258/1998.	ANALYSIS
 16. The Appellant has produced the certified copy of the Judgement and Decree passed in O.S.No.147/1995, 100/1994 and 258/1998 wherein the common Judgement was passed and the suit filed by the 1st Defendant in O.S.No.147/1995 was dismissed and O.S.No.100/1994 and 258/1998 was decreed.	ANALYSIS
The Appellant has also produced the certified copy of the Judgement passed in R.A.Nos. 126/2007, 127/2007 and 128/2007 filed against the Judgement and Decree passed in O.S.Nos.147/1995, 100/1994 and 258/1998.	ANALYSIS
The said appeals have been dismissed with penal costs of Rs.10,000/- each and confirmed the order of the Trial Court.	ANALYSIS
 17. The Respondent No.1 along with his written argument has produced certified copy of the Order sheet of the Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka in R.S.A.No.984/2010 wherein the execution of the Decree is stayed till next date of hearing.	ANALYSIS
No further orders have been produced by the Appellant or the Respondents with respect to R.S.A.No.984/2010 pending before the Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka.	ANALYSIS
Thus, as on the date of filing the suit, the title dispute with respect to the suit schedule properties between 1st Defendant and 3rd Defendant was not concluded.	ANALYSIS
The Trial Court has considered all the documentary evidence produced by both the parties and also considered the pleadings of the both the parties and since O.S.No.147/1995, 100/1994 and 258/1998 were pending.	ANALYSIS
When the suit is filed only for the relief of permanent injunction restraining the 3rd Defendant Mahant P.Krishnandagiri Goswamy for transferring or changing the attached property, in any way and that all persons were prohibited from enjoying any benefit under such transfer until further order of the Tax recovery officer, Mysore Circle. The Plaintiff has not recognizing the 1st Defendant is an Assessee with respect to the suit schedule properties and tax dues to the Plaintiff.	ANALYSIS
As on the date of filing the suit as admitted by the Plaintiff himself that the suit schedule properties are standing in the name of 1st Defendant and not in the name of the 3rd Defendant.	ANALYSIS
Admittedly, with respect to the tax dues to the Plaintiff, there is a proceeding before the Competent Authority.	ANALYSIS
The said Competent Authority cannot decide the title of the parties with respect to the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
The title dispute between the 1st Defendant and 3rd Defendant with respect to the suit schedule properties is still pending before the Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka.	ANALYSIS
Defendants No.1 and 3 are fighting for declaration of title between themselves with respect to the suit schedule properties.	ANALYSIS
When the Competent Authority has ordered to attach the properties, then it should have taken steps to sell the properties to recover the amount as contemplated U/s. 68(b) of Income Tax Act.	ANALYSIS
But there is no steps are taken within the period of limitation, which has not been explained by the Plaintiff in the present case.	ANALYSIS
The Trial Court relying on a decision reported in ILR 1997 Kar 3089 wherein it is held that "Suit against alienation is not maintainable and if such injunction is granted it will be against the very toner, tone and ambit of the Transfer of Property Act".	ANALYSIS
In the present case the Plaintiff has sought for a declaration order of attachment dated 3.5.1995 issued by Tax Recovery Officer, Range II, Mysore, in respect of the suit schedule properties is absolute and binding the Defendants.	ANALYSIS
The Plaintiff need not seek such a relief because any order passed under the Income Tax Act is binding on the parties.	ANALYSIS
Hence if this relief is excludes then relief of permanent injunction is an only remains.	ANALYSIS
But as per the above said decision the relief of permanent injunction cannot be granted.	ANALYSIS
No relief is sought in respect of 'B' schedule properties in the present case.	ANALYSIS
Considering all these facts the Trial Court has answered Point No. 1 in negative. 18.	ANALYSIS
As already stated above, title dispute between the 1st Defendant and the 3rd Defendant is still pending before the Competent Court of Law and the said suits were disposed off by the original Court and first appeal is also dismissed.	ANALYSIS
Now the matter is pending before the Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka.	ANALYSIS
In view of the fact that when the Plaintiff is not considering the 1st Defendant is an Assessee for the alleged dues to the Plaintiff with respect to the Income Tax and Wealth Tax as contended by the Plaintiff and the properties were standing in the name of the 1st Defendant as on the date of filing the present suit and Defendant No.3 is also claiming that he is owner of the suit schedule properties, under these circumstances, the Defendants cannot alienate the suit schedule properties since the Plaintiff is having claim over the suit schedule properties with respect to the tax dues.	ANALYSIS
 19. After disposal off of O.S.No. 147/1995, 100/1994 and 258/1998, Plaintiff who has filed O.S.No. 430/2005 against the Defendants on the file of this Court was withdrawn by the Plaintiff on the ground that, since the suit filed by the 1st Defendant against the 3rd Defendant in O.S.No.147/1995 was dismissed with cost.	ANALYSIS
The suit in O.S.No.100/1994 and 258/1998 filed by the 3rd Defendant against the Defendant No.1 are decreed with cost and 3rd Defendant Mahant K.Krishna Mohanananda Giri Goswamy is declared as the owner of the suit schedule property.	ANALYSIS
In the mean while, 3rd Defendant has acquired the major portion tax and interest portion of tax also left with him.	ANALYSIS
His waiver petition is pending before Chief Commissioner, Bangaluru and on that ground it is not usual purpose will be served when continued the said suit when the said suit was allowed to be withdrawn to proceed against the 3rd Defendant if necessary.	ANALYSIS
The claim of the Plaintiff in that suit and the claim of the Plaintiff in the present suit are almost similar.	ANALYSIS
The Trial Court has considered all the documentary evidence and the relevant provisions of Income Tax and held that the suit itself is not maintainable in view of the decision reported in ILR 1997 Kar 3089.	ANALYSIS
At this stage, I am of the considered view that the maintainability of suit cannot be consider at this stage and same has to be considered only at the time of final hearing of the suit.	RATIO
The only point that has to be decided in disposing off the application whether the Plaintiff has got prima-facie case or not?	RATIO
The Defendants are not denying the dues to the Plaintiff towards the Income Tax and Wealth Tax.	RATIO
Under these circumstances, I am of the view that the order of the Trial Court is requires to be modified though on the basis of the pleadings, Plaintiff is not entitled to claim the relief sought in the present suit as discussed by Trial Court.	RATIO
Since it is a pre-trial stage, I am of the view that Plaintiff has got prima-facie case at this stage and balance of convenience is also lies in his favour and if the properties are disposed off either by the 1st Defendant or by the 3rd Defendant then the Plaintiff cannot recover the huge sum of money dues with respect to the Income Tax and Wealth Tax as claimed by the Plaintiff in the present suit.	RATIO
Hence, I am of the view that the Defendants are directed to maintain STATUS QUO of the suit schedule properties till final disposal of title dispute between the 1st Defendant and the 3rd Defendant with respect to the suit schedule properties.	RATIO
The Plaintiff at this stage cannot claim that he is entitled for the relief claimed in I.A. when pending dispute between the 1st Defendant and 3rd Defendant, I am of the view that the Trial Court order has to be modified accordingly.	RATIO
Hence, with this observation I answer Point No. 1 to 3 in negative and Point No. 4 Partly in affirmative.	RATIO
 20. Point No. 5: -	RPC
In view of the discussion made above, I proceed to pass the following: ORDER Appeal filed by the Appellant is hereby PARTLY ALLOWED. 	RPC
Defendant No.1 to 3 are hereby directed to maintain the STATUS QUO of the suit schedule properties till the title dispute between the 1st Defendant and 3rd Defendant is disposed of finally.	RPC
 Plaintiff is at liberty to proceed in accordance with law against the person in whose favour the title is decided.	RPC
Draw decree accordingly.	NONE
Send the Lower Court records to the Trial Court along with the copy of this order.	NONE
 (Dictated to the Steno, transcript by her, revised, corrected and then pronounced in open court on this the16th day of March 2012).	NONE
 (K.B.Patil) III ADDL.SR.CIVIL JUDGE, MYSORE. 	NONE
