PETITIONER:SARDAR SINGH ETC. ETC.       Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE (DELHI ADMINISTRATION, DELHI)	PREAMBLE
DATE OF JUDGMENT23/02/1993	PREAMBLE
BENCH:KULDIP SINGH (J)BENCH:KULDIP SINGH (J)	PREAMBLE
MOHAN, S. (J)	PREAMBLE
CITATION:1993 AIR 1696           1993 SCR (2) 651993 SCC Supl. (2) 393 JT 1993 (4) 5341993 SCALE (1)681ACT:Indian Evidence Act, 1872. Section 3.Indian Penal Code, 1860. Sections 302/34 and 201/34.Murder-Causing the evidence of the Commission of the offenceto disappear-Conviction based on         circumstantialevidence--Validity of.HEADNOTE:The appellant, A-1, his wife, A-2, and his brother's wife,A-3, were prosecuted under Sections 302/34 and 201/34 of theIndian Penal Code.	PREAMBLE
Ile entire case was based on thecircumstantial evidence : (a) the deceased had illicitrelations with A-2 and A-3; (b) the deceased was last seenon the night when he went to sleep in his house andthereafter his dead body was found buried in the house of A-1; (3) during interrogation A-1 made a disclosure statementand consequently lead the police party to his sitting roomwhere he pointed out a spot covered by a cot and thereafterhe dug the floor and, the dead body of the deceased wasrecovered from a five feet deep pit; and (4) recovery of doe(woodcutter) from his possession bearing the same humanblood group as that of the deceased.	PREAMBLE
Relying upon thesecircumstances the trial court convicted A-1 and A-2 on boththe counts and sentenced them to imprisonment for life onthe first count and for five years on the second count butacquitted A-3.	PREAMBLE
'Me High Court dismissed the appeal of A-1.	PREAMBLE
However, it acquitted A-2 on the ground that there was noevidence to connect her with the commission of the murderbut maintained her conviction and sentence under sections201/34 on the ground that she being the inmate of the housewas in the know of the fact that the dead body was burriedin the house with a view to causing the disappearance ofevidence and she must have been necessarily involved in theprocess of digging a grave of five feet deep, the filling ofthe grave and erasing the traces etc.	PREAMBLE
Both the accusedfiled appeals in this Courts.	PREAMBLE
Dismissing the appeal of A-1 and allowing the appeal of A-2,this Court,HELD:      1.	PREAMBLE
The chain of circumstances relied upon by theprosecution and accepted by the Courts below leaves nomanner of doubt that A-1 committed the murder.	PREAMBLE
Accordinglyhis conviction and sentence is upheld.	PREAMBLE
[68B]	PREAMBLE
2. There is not an iota of evidence on the record not evena whisper to the effect that it was A-2 who helped inconcealing or causing the evidence of the commission of theoffence to disappear.	PREAMBLE
Simply because she is the wife of A-1and as such is supposed to be living in the same house, Itcannot be assumed that she was guilty of the offence undersection201/34.	PREAMBLE
A-1 may or may not have taken help of his wife inconcealing the dead body.	PREAMBLE
Her being wife of A-1 by itselfis not sufficient to prove the charge under section 201/34.	PREAMBLE
She is accordingly acquitted of that charge.	PREAMBLE
[68H, 69A-B]JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 645 of 1989.	NONE
From the Judgment and Order dated 17.3.89 of the Delhi High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 270/85. AND Criminal Appeal No. 534 of 1989.A.P. Mohanty and S.K. Sabharwal for the Appellants.	NONE
K. Lahri, V.C. Mahajan, Mrs. Indra Sawhney and B.K. Prasad for the Respondent.	NONE
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by KULDIP SINGH, J.	NONE
 Sardar Singh, his wife Saraswati and his brother's wife Savitri were charged under Sections 302/34 and 201/34, Indian Penal Code (IPC) for the murder of one Charanjit.	FAC
The trial Court convicted Sardar Singh and his wife Saraswati on both the counts and sentenced them to imprisonment for life on the first count and for five years on the second count.	RLC
Accused Savitri was, however, acquitted by the trial Court.	RLC
The High Court dismissed the appeal filed by Sardar Singh.	RLC
Saraswati was acquitted of the charge under Sections 302/34, IPC but her conviction and sentence Under Section 201/34 IPC was maintained by the High Court.	RLC
These two appeals are by Sardar Singh and Saraswati against the judgment of the High Court.	FAC
Sardar Singh, appellant and one Tara Chand are real brothers.	FAC
Both the them were residing in village Jhatikara.	FAC
They were living in adjoining houses.	FAC
Deceased Charanjit was living in a house adjacent to their houses.	FAC
Charanjit's wife had died about ten years ago and he was living in the house by himself.	FAC
Deceased Charanjit had developed illicit relation with Savitri wife of Tara Chand and also with appellant-Saraswati.	FAC
The prosecution case in a nut-shell is that deceased Charanjit was having illicit relations with both Saraswati and Savitri and used to visit them during night for the last so many years.	FAC
On March 31, 1983 the deceased had gone to sleep in his house in the evening and did not appear thereafter.	FAC
On April 4, 1983 Lakhmi Chand, brother of the deceased, lodged report with the police expressing suspicion against the appellants and Savitri.	FAC
It is alleged that during the course of interrogation Sardar Singh-appellant made a disclosure statement and consequently led the policy party to his sitting room where he pointed out a spot covered by a cot.	FAC
Sardar Singh, thereafter, dug the floor and the dead body of the deceased was recovered from a five feet deep grave.	FAC
Thereafter, at the pointing out of the appellant Sardar Singh, the police also seized doe (wood cutter) and knife contained in a canvas bag hanging in the adjacent room.	FAC
The dead body was tied with a rope and was wrapped in three gunny bags.	FAC
The recovered knife had no blood stained while the doe was found stained with blood.	FAC
On examination by the Serologist the blood stains on the doe were found to be human and of the same group as that of the deceased.	FAC
The entire case of the prosecution is based on circumstantial evidence.	ANALYSIS
The circumstances relied upon by the prosecution are as under: (1) The deceased had illicit relations with Saraswati and Savitri, wife and brother's wife of appellant Sardar Singh.	ANALYSIS
(2) The deceased was last seen on the night of March 31, 1983 when he went to sleep in his house and thereafter his dead body was found buried in the appellants' house.	ANALYSIS
(3) Sardar Singh appellant, on interrogation made a disclosure statement leading to the recovery of the dead body from a five feet deep pit in the sitting room of the appellants.	ANALYSIS
(4) Recovery of doe from the possession of the appellant which wasfound to bear the same human blood group as that of the deceased.	ANALYSIS
Relying upon the above mentioned circumstances the trial Court and the High Court have convicted the appellants.	ANALYSIS
So far as appellant-Sardar Singh is concerned, the chain of circumstances relied upon by the prosecution and accepted by the courts below leaves no manner of doubt that it was he who committed the murder of Charanjit.	ANALYSIS
We have been taken through the judgments of the trial Court and that of the High Court.	ANALYSIS
We agree with the reasoning and the conclusions reached therein.	ANALYSIS
We, therefore, uphold the conviction and sentenced of appellant-Sardar Singh and dismiss his appeal.	RPC
So far as appellant-Saraswati is concerned the High Court dealt with her case in the following manner: "Before we part with this order, there is one more fact which needs our consideration.	ANALYSIS
In this case, the disclosure that led to the recovery of the dead body has been made by Sardar Singh appellant.	ANALYSIS
There is no evidence direct or indirect to connect the appellant Saraswati with the commission of murder, though it can safely be said that she being the inmate of the house was in know of the fact that the dead body was buried in the house with a view to cause the disappearance of evidence.	ANALYSIS
In our view, the process of digging a grave of 5 feet deep and of the size of the deceased in length, the filling of the grave and then erasing the traces of the same is a long process and she must have been necessarily involved in the same.	ANALYSIS
since, in our view, there is no evidence to connect her with the commission of murder we acquit the appellant Saraswati of the charge under Section 302/34 IPC but maintain her conviction and sentence under Section 201/34 IPC."	ANALYSIS
We are of the view that the reasoning adopted by the High Court in acquitting Saraswati of the charge under Section 302/34 IPC is equally applicable to the charge against her under Section 201/34 IPC.	ANALYSIS
It may be correct that the process of digging a grave of five feet deep, the filling of the grave and then erasing the traces etc. may not have been done by Sardar Singh alone but there is not an iota of evidence on the record not even a whisper to the effect that it was Saraswati who helped him in concealing or causing the evidence of the commission of the offence to disappear.	ANALYSIS
Simply because she is the wife of appellant Sardar Singh and as such is supposed to be living in the same house, it cannot be assumed that she was guilty of the offence under Section 201/34 of the Indian Penal Code.	ANALYSIS
According to the Prosecution Saraswati was having illicit relation with the deceased for several years.	ANALYSIS
 Sardar Singh may or may not have taken her help in concealing the dead body.	RATIO
Her being wife of Sardar Singh by itself is not sufficient to prove the charge under Section 201/34 IPC against her.	RATIO
We, therefore, give benefit of doubt to Saraswati, allow her appeal and acquit her of the charge under Section 201/34, Indian Penal Code.	RPC
She is already on bail.	RPC
Her bail-bonds are cancelled.	RPC
 T.N.A.               Crl. A. No.645/89 dismissed.	RPC
 Criminal Appeal No. 534/89 allowed.	RPC
