IN THE COURT OF THE PRINCIPAL DISTRICT AND               SESSIONS JUDGE AT MYSURUDated this the 6th day of September, 2018	PREAMBLE
PRESENT: Sri. S.K.Vantigodi, B.A., LL.B.(Spl.),                                   Prl.	PREAMBLE
District & Sessions Judge,	PREAMBLE
                                   Mysuru.	PREAMBLE
*****                       	PREAMBLE
Crl.Misc. No.1499/2018Petitioners 1.   Ravi S/o late Doreswamy, aged                 about   30     years,  R/at                 Helavarahundi          Village,                 T.Narasipura Taluk, Mysuru District.             2.  Harish  @      Dinesh  S/o                 Mahabaleshwara Gowda, aged                 about   27     years,  R/	PREAMBLE
at                 Asanabelumane Village, Agumbe	PREAMBLE
Hobli,  Thirthahalli   Taluk,                 Shivamogga District.	PREAMBLE
( By Sri. K.S.Nagendra Prasad, Advocate )                           Vs.Respondent:      State by Alanahalli Police Station.                 ( By learned Public Prosecutor )                             **	PREAMBLE
*                 O R D E R	PREAMBLE
This is a petition filed under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. by the petitioners seeking regular bail in Crime No. 105/2018 of Alanahalli Police Station for the offences punishable under Section 3, 4, 5 and 6 of I.T.P. Act, 1956 and Section 370(3) of I.P.C. 2.	FAC
In brief, the averments of the petition are as under: On the basis of the complaint filed by one Sandeep.J., son of Jagadish, Creative Head of Prathidwani T.V., the respondent/Police have registered a case against the petitioners herein for the above said offences. 	FAC
In the complaint, it is alleged that, on 04.08.2018 at about 04.45 p.m., when himself and his colleagues knocked the door of the House No.152 situated at Nadanahalli Village of T.Narasipura Taluk, two persons opened the door and when they entered the house, they found one male and a female in naked position.	FAC
When they told to wear the clothes, the said male person ran away from that place through back door.	FAC
On coming to know that it is a immoral traffic offence, they informed to Vodanadi Institute and also their higher ups to lodge a complaint with the Jurisdictional Police.	FAC
When enquired the lady who was present there, she told the name of one Harish i.e. petitioner No.2 herein and called him over phone to come there.	FAC
But he did not turn up.	FAC
Then on enquiry, they came to know that one Ravi i.e. petitioner No.1 herein has also involved in the said immoral activities.	FAC
As such, prayed to take action against the said persons who involved in the commission of immoral activities.	FAC
 3. On the basis of such complaint filed by the complainant, the respondent/Police have registered a case in Crime No.105/2018 for the above said offences and commenced investigation.	FAC
During investigation, the respondent/Police arrested these petitioners on 26.08.2018 and since then, they are in judicial custody.	FAC
Hence, they have come up with this petition seeking regular bail.	FAC
 4. It is now contended by the petitioners that, they are innocents and law abiding citizens and they have not committed any such offence as alleged against them.	ARG_PETITIONER
On the basis of statement of victim girl, they have been arrested.	ARG_PETITIONER
They are strangers to the said girl.	ARG_PETITIONER
As the TV media persons pressurized the respondent/Police, these petitioners have been falsely implicated in this case.	ARG_PETITIONER
There is a delay of 8 hours in lodging the complaint, which is not properly explained.	ARG_PETITIONER
The ingredients of the offences alleged are not attracted because the petitioners not at all keeping a brothel or allowing their premises to be used as brothel and they are not living on the earnings of the prostitution.	ARG_PETITIONER
Both these petitioners are strangers to each other and they are permanent residents of different districts.	ARG_PETITIONER
Further detention of these petitioners in the judicial custody amounts to pretrial punishment and they are not required for custodial interrogation.	ARG_PETITIONER
They are having aged parents, wife and children and are the only earning members in their family.	ARG_PETITIONER
They are having deep roots in the society.	ARG_PETITIONER
The alleged offences are not punishable with death or imprisonment for life.	ARG_PETITIONER
They are ready to abide by any conditions which may be imposed by this Court and assist in the investigation.	ARG_PETITIONER
Hence, prayed to allow the petition.	ARG_PETITIONER
5. On the other hand, the learned Public Prosecutor has filed objections contending that the petition is not maintainable either in law or on facts.	ARG_RESPONDENT
Reiterating the averments of the complaint, it is contended that the offences alleged are heinous and anti- social.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The records prima facie disclose that the petitioners have committed the offences alleged.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The investigation is in progress.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The Investigating Officer has recorded the statement of victim girl and seized mobile and other articles from her custody.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The I.O. has also arrested these petitioners and another accused and recorded their voluntary statement.	ARG_RESPONDENT
If at this stage, the petitioners are granted bail, there is every likelihood of tampering the witnesses, committing similar offences and hampering further investigation.	ARG_RESPONDENT
The petitioners are influential persons and by using their influence, they may hamper investigation.	ARG_RESPONDENT
They have no permanent place of abode.	ARG_RESPONDENT
As such, prayed to reject the petition.	ARG_RESPONDENT
 6. Heard learned Counsel for the petitioners and learned Public Prosecutor for the State.	NONE
Perused the records.	NONE
7. The points that arise for my consideration are as under: 1. Whether the petitioners are entitled for regular bail as prayed ? 2. What order ?	ISSUE
 8. My finding on the above points are as under: Point No.(1) :: In the Affirmative Point No.(2) :: As per final order, for the following: REASONS 9. Point No.1: Perused the contents of petition, objections and other materials placed on record.	ANALYSIS
 10. The petitioners have produced the certified copy of Order- sheet, F.I.R., complaint and also the remand requisition.	ANALYSIS
They have also produced an Authority reported in 2018(2) AKR 129. 11.	ANALYSIS
A perusal of the materials placed before this Court reflects that, the Investigating Officer has already seized the incriminating materials during investigation and the alleged offences are not exclusively punishable with death or imprisonment for life.	ANALYSIS
Even otherwise, the truth or otherwise of the allegations made in the complaint cannot be ascertained unless a thorough investigation takes place.	ANALYSIS
Further, the petitioners are in judicial custody since the date of their arrest i.e.26.08.2018.	ANALYSIS
If the petitioners are detained in custody till conclusion of trial, they may come in contact with hardened criminals and they may turn out to be hardcore criminals in future.	ANALYSIS
Further, the detention of these petitioners behind Bars is not required for any investigation purpose.	ANALYSIS
 13. Even otherwise, the offences alleged though non-bailable, are not exclusively punishable with death or imprisonment for life.	ANALYSIS
The petitioners are permanent residents of the address shown in the cause-title and there are no any bad antecedents against them.	ANALYSIS
They have also undertaken to abide by any conditions.	ANALYSIS
As such, the apprehension of learned Public Prosecutor that, the petitioners, if granted regular bail, would threaten the witnesses, commit similar offences and hamper further investigation, can be met with by putting stringent conditions.	ANALYSIS
So, considering all these aspects, I feel that, the bail petition deserves to be allowed with conditions.	RPC
Accordingly, I answer point No.1 in the affirmative.	RPC
 14. Point No.2:	RPC
In the result, I proceed to pass the following:	RPC
ORDER Petition filed by the petitioners under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. is hereby allowed.	RPC
 Petitioners are granted bail in Crime No.105/2018 of Alanahalli Police Station, pending on the file of III J.M.F.C. Court, Mysuru.	RPC
The Jurisdictional Magistrate is hereby directed to release the petitioners in the said case on bail, subject to the following conditions: 1.	RPC
The petitioners shall execute personal bond in a sum of Rs.50,000/- (Rupees fifty thousand only) each with one surety for likesum to the satisfaction of the Magistrate for their appearance before I.O./Magistrate and to co-operate for investigation/trial.	RPC
 2. They shall not tamper or threaten the witnesses in any manner.	RPC
 3. They shall not involve in other offences. 4.	RPC
They shall appear before Court regularly without fail.	RPC
 ( Typed to my on-line dictation by the Judgment Writer on Computer and after corrections, signed and then pronounced by me in the open Court on this the 6th day of September, 2018. )	NONE
( S.K.Vantigodi ) Prl. District & Sessions Judge, Mysuru.	NONE
