PETITIONER:NIMEON SANGMA & ORS.Vs.RESPONDENT:	PREAMBLE
HOME SECRETARY, GOVT. OF MEGHALAYA & ORS	PREAMBLE
DATE OF JUDGMENT30/04/1979	PREAMBLE
BENCH:KRISHNAIYER, V.R.BENCH:KRISHNAIYER, V.R.PATHAK, R.S.KOSHAL, A.D.CITATION:                1979 SCR (3) 785 1979 AIR 1518 1979 SCC (1) 700ACT:                      of Justice-Pre-trial detention-         Administration  of cases including investigations and                         209 & 309 of Criminal Procedure Code,Expeditious disposaltrials-Sections 167,1973.HEADNOTE:         In their petition for the issue of a writ of habeascorpus, the petitioners alleged illegal detention of a largenumber of persons under guise of the judicial process.^         HELD : 1.	PREAMBLE
Criminal Justice breaks down at a point whenexpeditious trial is not attempted while the affectedparties are languishing in jail. The Criminal Procedure Codein Sections 167, 209 and 309 has emphasised the importanceof expeditious disposal of cases including investigationsand trials.	PREAMBLE
[786E]         	PREAMBLE
2. The State Government to take a policy decision witha view to ensure that accused persons, too indigent to setin motion the judicial process, do not suffer incarcerationsilently.	PREAMBLE
[787B]         3.	PREAMBLE
The Government will do well to comply with thespirit of the Code of Criminal Procedure especially in thematter of persons sought to be bound over for goodbehaviour, persons against whom summons cases are pendingand persons who have been in custody for more than sixmonths	PREAMBLE
This will involve a mass release from jails, butGovernment has to pay homage in substance and reality to theprovisions of the Constitution and the Code.	PREAMBLE
[787C]         The Court directed that :-         (a) The State do consent to release all persons whohave been in custody for over six months and whose trialshave not commenced or against whom charge sheets have not	PREAMBLE
been laid	PREAMBLE
excepting in those cases under Sections 302 and395 I.P.C.	PREAMBLE
[786G]         (b) The State shall complete investigation within twomonths in cases where charge sheets have not been laid.	PREAMBLE
[786H]         (c) The Sessions Court concerned should dispose of thecases where chargesheets have been laid and commitment hasbeen made within six months.	PREAMBLE
                                                       [786H]JUDGMENT:	PREAMBLE
CRIMINAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION : Writ Petition No. 211 of 1979.         K. Hingorani for the Petitioners.	NONE
         D. N. Mukherjee for the Respondents.	NONE
         The Order of the Court was delivered by KRISHNA IYER, J.-	NONE
This is a petition for the issuance of a writ of habeas corpus in view of alleged illegal detention of a large number of persons under guise of the judicial process.	FAC
         Even without going into details, we are satisfied that petitioners Nos. 3 and 4 should be released on their own bonds to the satisfaction of the trial court subject to their reporting to the nearest police station once every fortnight and appearing in court whenever called upon to do so to take their trial.	ANALYSIS
We direct accordingly.	ANALYSIS
 So far as petitioner No. 1 is concerned, the State in its affidavit swear that there is no such person in custody in connection with any case.	ANALYSIS
This matter will be scrutinised further by the State so that it may satisfy itself that no one is in custody except under due process of law.	ANALYSIS
 This Court in its earlier order dated March 5, 1979 has directed the State to file a statement containing particulars of the under-trial prisoners who have been confined in Jail for a period of over six months without their trials having commenced.	ANALYSIS
Further details as to the ages of such under-trials, the dates from which they were confined and the offences with which they were charged were also called for.	ANALYSIS
In the reply statement put in by the respondent, we find a large number of cases where detention for considerable periods, without the trial having even commenced, is being suffered by various persons.	ANALYSIS
Criminal justice breaks down, at a point when expeditious trial is not attempted while the affected parties are languishing in jail.	ANALYSIS
The Criminal Procedure Code in sections 167, 209 and 309 has emphasised the importance of expeditious disposal of cases including investigations and trials.	ANALYSIS
It is unfortunate, indeed pathetic, that there should have been such considerable delay in investigations by the police in utter disregard of the fact that a citizen has been deprived of his freedom on the ground that he is accused of an offence.	ANALYSIS
We do not approve of this course and breach of the rule of law and express our strong displeasure at this chaotic state of affairs verging on wholesale breach of human rights guaranteed under the Constitution especially under Article 21 as interpreted by this Court.	ANALYSIS
 Even so we do not wish to pass any orders at the moment until more particulars are brought to our notice.	ANALYSIS
It will suffice for the present-and counsel for the State assures us that any direction given by this Court will be promptly complied with-that we direct the State to consent to release all persons who have been in custody for over six months and whose trials have not commenced or against whom charge sheets have not been laid.	RPC
But make one exception in cases where sections 302 and 395, IPC are involved.	RPC
We direct that the State shall complete the investigation within two months from today where charge sheets have not been laid and further direct the Sessions Court concerned to dispose of the cases where charge sheets have been laid and commitment has been made, within six months from today.	RPC
A report will be made to this Court at the end of six months from today by the State.	RPC
 We must emphatically record our view that there has been a self-condemnation in the statement put in by the State Government in that in quite a number of cases which are not of a serious character and even in those which involve serious offences, investigations have been pending for nearly two years.	RATIO
There are cases where persons have been in custody for five years-a situation too ghastly for a civilised country like ours.	RATIO
We therefore draw the attention of the State Government to take a policy decision with a view to ensure that accused persons, too indigent to set in motion the judicial process, do not suffer incarceration silently.	RATIO
The Government will do well to comply with the spirit of the Code of Criminal Procedure especially in the matter of persons sought to be bound over for good behaviour, persons against whom summons cases are pending and persons who have been in custody for more than six months.	RATIO
Maybe this will involve a mass release from Jails, but Government has to pay homage in substance and reality to the provisions of the Constitution and the Code.	RATIO
With these observations, and directions, we dispose of this petition.	RPC
 N.V.K.               Petition disposed	NONE
