IN THE COURT OF THE III ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE AT                                           MYSORE.               	PREAMBLE
Dated this the 21st day of February, 2014	PREAMBLE
Present: Sri. Suresh S Kogilgeri, B.Com., LL.B.(Spl.),                           III	PREAMBLE
Addl. Sessions Judge,	PREAMBLE
                            Mysore.	PREAMBLE
: Crl.	PREAMBLE
Mis.No.266/2014 :Petitioners  : 1. Purushothama, S/o Nanjundappa,                         aged about 30 years, residing at	PREAMBLE
                         No.A3/9, BEML Township, Hinkal                         Post,	PREAMBLE
Mysore.	PREAMBLE
             2. Nanjundappa, S/o late Chikkanna                  aged about 62 years             3. Smt.Nagarathna,              W/o             Nanjundappa, aged about 55 years             4. V.H.  Mahesh,    S/o	PREAMBLE
late             Honnegowda, aged about 35 years	PREAMBLE
5. Divyashree, W/o V.H.Mahesh,                 aged about 28 years             Petitioners 2 to 5 are residing at             No.17, II Floor, 50 feet Main Road,             Girinagar	PREAMBLE
22nd Main, Bangalore	PREAMBLE
.             6. Puttaraju, S/o Manasappa, aged                 about 43 years             7.	PREAMBLE
Smt.Hemavathi N., W/o Puttaraju,                 aged about 33 years             Petitioners 6 and 7	PREAMBLE
are residing at             D.No.1, 8th Cross, Muneshwara             Layout, Attur, Yelahanka New Town,             Bangalore.	PREAMBLE
{By Sri B.P.Devaraj, Advocate}                     Vs.              2Respondent    : State by Mahila Police Station,                     Mysore.                     { By Public Prosecutor, Mysore }:	PREAMBLE
: ORDER ON BAIL PETITION FILED U/S 438 OF CR.P.C. :: This is a bail petition filed by the petitioners under Sec.438 of Cr.P.C. praying to grant them anticipatory bail in Cr.No.19/2014 registered by the respondent police for the offences punishable under Secs.498-A and 506 read with Sec.34 of IPC and under Sections 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act.	FAC
2. On the other hand, the learned Public Prosecutor has resisted the aforesaid bail petition of the petitioners by filing his objections and prayed to dismiss the same.	FAC
3. Heard the arguments of both the sides.	NONE
 4. At this stage, the following Points have arisen for my determination: 1. Whether the petitioners are entitled to be granted anticipatory bail under Sec.438 of Cr.P.C.?	ISSUE
 2. What Order?	ISSUE
5. My findings on the aforesaid Points are held as under: Point No.1 : In the Affirmative Point No.2 : As per my final order below, for the following: : R e a s o n s :	ANALYSIS
 Point No.1:- 6.	ANALYSIS
Perused the petition, FIR and written complaint.	ANALYSIS
They reveal that, on 06-05-2013, the marriage of the Complainant 3  Crl.Mis.No.266/14 was taken place with accused No.1 as per Hindu customs.	FAC
At the time of marriage, accused-1 to 7/petitioners had demanded to give them 250 gms of gold and a site.	FAC
Out of which, 250 gms. of gold were given to the accusd as dowry.	FAC
After the marriage, the Complainant started to live in the house of the accused.	FAC
During that time, the accused gave physical and mental ill-treatment to the Complainant to bring additional dowry. Accused-2 to 7 instigated accused No.1 not to look after the Complainant well until she brings a site from her parents house.	FAC
Thereafter, household articles worth Rs.1,00,000/- were given to the accused by the parents of the Complainant.	FAC
The mother of the Complainant came to the house of accused and resided there for a period of 10 days.	FAC
On one day, the mother of the Complainant returned back from the Temple.	FAC
At that time, accused No.1 all of a sudden picked up quarrel with the Complainant and her mother and threatened them to kill them by showing a knife.	FAC
So, on the basis of the complaint filed by the Complainant, the respondent police have registered a case in Crime No.19/2014 against accused-1 to 7 for the offences punishable under Secs.498-A and 506 read with Sec.34 of I.P.C.and under Sections 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act.	FAC
 7. Under the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, the petitioners/accused apprehending their arrest by the Respondent Police in the aforesaid Crime, have filed the present bail petition under Sec.438 of Cr.P.C. praying to grant them anticipatory bail on the grounds that, they are innocent persons of the alleged offences.	FAC
They have not committed the alleged offences.	FAC
The Complainant has filed a false complaint against him.	FAC
The 1st offence punishable under Section is working at 4 BEML, Mysore and the Complainant is working in a Private Factory at Bangalore.	FAC
The Complainant and her mother wanted the 1st petitioner to shift to Bangalore and the 1st petitioner did not agree for the same.	FAC
As a result of this, a false complaint is filed against them.	FAC
Petitioners-2 to 7 have nothing to do with the family affairs of the 1st petitioner and Complainant.	FAC
The only intention of the Complainant in lodging the complaint is to torture the petitioners mentally.	FAC
The 1st petitioner had given a legal notice to the Complainant on 30-12-3013 to join him and lead a happy marital life.	FAC
But the Complainant sent an untenable reply stating that she will lodge a complaint before the Police and also file a suit for seeking maintenance and other reliefs.	FAC
The 1st petitioner got issued rejoinder once again requesting the Complainant to come and live with him and that he is ready to look after her.	FAC
But the Complainant did not comply it.	FAC
Later, she filed the present false complaint against them.	FAC
They are permanent residents of Mysore and Bangalore as stated in the cause title of the petition.	FAC
The alleged offences are not punishable with death or life imprisonment.	FAC
They are ready and willing to abide by the terms and conditions that would be imposed by this Court.	FAC
So, they prayed to grant them anticipatory bail.	FAC
 8. On the other hand, the case of the prosecution is that, there is a prima facie case against the petitioners/accused for having committed the alleged offences.	ARG_RESPONDENT
If the petitioners are released on bail, they may threaten the Complainant and destroy the evidence.	ARG_RESPONDENT
No grounds have been made out by the petitioners to grant them anticipatory bail.	ARG_RESPONDENT
So, the learned 5  Crl.Mis.No.266/14 Public Prosecutor prayed to dismiss the bail petition of the petitioner.	ARG_RESPONDENT
 9. I have gone through the records of the case.	ANALYSIS
The points to be considered while granting bail to the petitioners are that  whether petitioners have committed grave nature of offences, may abscond and tamper with the prosecution witnesses.	ANALYSIS
In the instant case, it is alleged by the prosecution that the petitioners have committed the offences punishable under Sec.498(A) and 506 read with Sec.34 of IPC and under Sections 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act.	ANALYSIS
The said offences are not punishable with death or life imprisonment.	ANALYSIS
So, it is clear that there are no grave nature of allegations against the petitioners for having committed the grave nature of offences.	ANALYSIS
The petitioners claim that they are permanent residents of Mysore and Bangalore.	ANALYSIS
This is not denied by the prosecution.	ANALYSIS
So, it is clear that their presence can be secured at the time of investigation and trial of the case.	ANALYSIS
There are no materials on record to show that the petitioners may tamper with the prosecution witnesses.	ANALYSIS
Considering all these facts and circumstances of the case, I feel it is just and proper to grant bail as prayed by the petitioners by imposing stringent conditions against them protecting the interest of the prosecution.	RPC
Accordingly, I answer Point No.1 in the Affirmative.	RPC
 Point No.2:- 10.	RPC
In the result, I proceed to pass the following: 6 :: ORDER ::	RPC
The bail petition filed by the petitioners under Sec.438 of Cr.P.C. is hereby allowed.	RPC
 Petitioners shall be released on anticipatory bail in the event of their arrest by the Respondent Police in Cr.No.19/2014 registered for the offences punishable under Sec.498(A) and 506 read with Sec.34 of I.P.C. and under Sections 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act on the file of Respondent Police Station on executing personal bond for a sum of Rs.25,000/- each with one surety for likesum by the petitioners, subject to the following conditions: 1. The petitioners shall not commit similar type of offences. 2.	RPC
They shall appear before the Court as and when called for.	RPC
 3. They shall not leave the jurisdiction of Mysore and Bangalore without prior permission of the jurisdictional Magistrate.	RPC
 4. They shall produce their address proof and address proof of their surety.	RPC
5. They shall not directly or indirectly make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade them from disclosing such facts to the Court or to any Police Officer or tamper with the evidence.	RPC
6. They shall appear before the Investigating Officer and assist him during the course of investigation as and when called for.	RPC
 (Dictated to the Judgment Writer, the transcript revised, corrected, signed and then pronounced by me in open court on this the 21st day of February, 2014)	RPC
(Suresh S Kogilgeri)	RPC
III Addl.Sessions Judge Mysore.	RPC
 7  Crl.Mis.No.266/14 Order pronounced in open court (vide separate order)	RPC
:: ORDER ::	RPC
The bail petition filed by the petitioners under Sec.438 of Cr.P.C. is hereby allowed.	RPC
 Petitioners shall be released on anticipatory bail in the event of their arrest by the Respondent Police in Cr.No.19/2014 registered for the offences punishable under Sec.498(A) and 506 read with Sec.34 of I.P.C. and under Sections 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act on the file of Respondent Police Station on executing personal bond for a sum of Rs.25,000/- each with one surety for likesum by the petitioners, subject to the following conditions: 1. The petitioners shall not commit similar type of offences.	RPC
 2. They shall appear before the Court as and when called for. 3. They shall not leave the jurisdiction of Mysore and Bangalore without prior permission of the jurisdictional Magistrate. 4. They shall produce their address proof and address proof of their surety. 5.	RPC
They shall not directly or indirectly make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade them from disclosing such facts to the Court or to any Police Officer or tamper with the evidence.	RPC
 6. They shall appear before the Investigating Officer and assist him during the course of investigation as and when called for.	RPC
 III Addl.Sessions Judge Mysore.	NONE
